www/apps/resources/app/recipes/personalized-products/page.mdx, before:

import { AcademicCapSolid, NextJs } from "@medusajs/icons"
import { LearningPath } from "docs-ui"

export const metadata = {
  title: `Personalized Products Recipe`,
}

# {metadata.title}

This recipe provides the general steps to build personalized products in Medusa.

## Overview

Personalized products are products that customers can customize based on their need. For example, they can upload an image to print on a shirt or provide a message to include in a letter.

In Medusa, you create a custom module defining data models, implementing custom features, and creating relationships to other modules' data models.

You also have freedom in how you choose to implement the storefront, allowing you to build a unique experience around your products.

---

## Store Personalized Data

The Cart Module's `LineItem` data model has a `metadata` field that holds any custom data. You can pass the customer's customization in that field when adding a product to the cart.

For example, if you’re asking customers to enter a message to put in a letter they’re purchasing, use the `metadata` attribute of the `LineItem` data model to set the personalized information entered by the customer:

```bash
curl -X POST '{backend_url}/store/carts/{id}/line-items' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
  "variant_id": "variant_123",
  "quantity": 1,
  "metadata": {
    "message": "Hello, World!"
  }
}'
```

<Note>

Two line items in the cart having different `metadata` attributes are not considered the same item. So, each line item is managed separately and can have its own quantity.

</Note>

In more complex cases, you can create a custom module that stores and manages the personalization data models. You can also create a relationship between these data models and the `LineItem` data model.

<CardList items={[
  {
    href: "!docs!/basics/modules-and-services",
    title: "Create a Module",
    text: "Learn how to create a module.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  },
  {
    href: "!docs!/basics/data-models",
    title: "Create a Data Model",
    text: "Learn how to create a data model.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  }
]} />

---

## Build a Custom Storefront

Due to Medusa's modular architecture, there are no restrictions on the framework you use to build the storefront, or design and experience you provide customers. The storefront connects to the Medusa application using the Store API Routes.

You can build a unique experience around your products that focuses on the customer’s personalization capabilities.

Medusa provides a Next.js Starter storefront with basic ecommerce functionalities that can be customized. You can also build your own storefront and use Medusa’s client libraries or Store API Routes to communicate with the Medusa application.

<CardList itemsPerRow={2} items={[
  {
    href: "/nextjs-starter",
    title: "Next.js Starter",
    text: "Learn about the Next.js Starter and how to install it.",
    startIcon: <NextJs />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  },
  {
    href: "!docs!/storefront-development/tips",
    title: "Build Your Own Storefront",
    text: "Find tips on how to create a storefront.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  },
]} />

---

## Pass Personalized Data to the Order

If you store the personalized data using a custom module:

- Create a custom API Route that handles saving the personalization data.
- Call that API Route from the storefront after adding the item to the cart.
- Listen to the `order.placed` event to attach the personalized data to the Order Module's `LineItem` data model.

<Note type="soon">

The `order.placed` event is currently not emitted.

</Note>

<CardList items={[
  {
    href: "!docs!/basics/api-routes",
    title: "Create API Route",
    text: "Learn how to create an API route.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  },
  {
    href: "!docs!/basics/events-and-subscribers",
    title: "Create a Subscriber",
    text: "Learn how to create a subscriber.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  },
]} />

---

## Fulfill Personalized Products in Orders

To fulfill your personalized products with a third-party service or custom logic, create a fulfillment provider module.

The Fulfillment Module registers your fulfillment provider module to use it to fulfill orders.

<Card
  href="/references/fulfillment/provider"
  title="Create a Fulfillment Service"
  text="Learn how to create a fulfillment provider in Medusa."
  startIcon={<AcademicCapSolid />}
  showLinkIcon={false}
/>

Commit message:

docs: updates to use DML and other changes (#7834)
- Change existing data model guides and add new ones for DML
- Change module's docs around service factory + remove guides that are now necessary
- Hide/remove all mentions of module relationships, or label them as coming soon.
- Change all data model creation snippets to use DML
- use `property` instead of `field` when referring to a data model's properties.
- Fix all snippets in commerce module guides to use new method suffix (no more main model methods)
- Rework recipes, removing/hiding a lot of sections as a lot of recipes are incomplete with the current state of DML.


### Other changes

- Highlight fixes in some guides
- Remove feature flags guide
- Fix code block styles when there are no line numbers.

### Upcoming changes in other PRs

- Re-generate commerce module references (for the updates in the method names)
- Ensure that the data model references are generated correctly for models using DML.
- (probably at a very later point) revisit recipes

www/apps/resources/app/recipes/personalized-products/page.mdx, after:

import { AcademicCapSolid, NextJs } from "@medusajs/icons"
import { LearningPath } from "docs-ui"

export const metadata = {
  title: `Personalized Products Recipe`,
}

# {metadata.title}

This recipe provides the general steps to build personalized products in Medusa.

## Overview

Personalized products are products that customers can customize based on their need. For example, they can upload an image to print on a shirt or provide a message to include in a letter.

In Medusa, you create a custom module defining data models, implementing custom features, and creating relationships to other modules' data models.

You also have freedom in how you choose to implement the storefront, allowing you to build a unique experience around your products.

---

## Store Personalized Data

The Cart Module's `LineItem` data model has a `metadata` property that holds any custom data. You can pass the customer's customization in the request body's `metadata` field when adding a product to the cart.

For example, if you’re asking customers to enter a message to put in a letter they’re purchasing, use the `metadata` attribute of the `LineItem` data model to set the personalized information entered by the customer:

```bash
curl -X POST '{backend_url}/store/carts/{id}/line-items' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
  "variant_id": "variant_123",
  "quantity": 1,
  "metadata": {
    "message": "Hello, World!"
  }
}'
```

<Note>

Two line items in the cart having different `metadata` attributes are not considered the same item. So, each line item is managed separately and can have its own quantity.

</Note>

In more complex cases, you can create a custom module that stores and manages the personalization data models. You can also create a relationship between these data models and the `LineItem` data model.

<CardList items={[
  {
    href: "!docs!/basics/modules-and-services",
    title: "Create a Module",
    text: "Learn how to create a module.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  },
  {
    href: "!docs!/basics/data-models",
    title: "Create a Data Model",
    text: "Learn how to create a data model.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  }
]} />

---

## Build a Custom Storefront

Due to Medusa's modular architecture, there are no restrictions on the framework you use to build the storefront, or design and experience you provide customers. The storefront connects to the Medusa application using the Store API Routes.

You can build a unique experience around your products that focuses on the customer’s personalization capabilities.

Medusa provides a Next.js Starter storefront with basic ecommerce functionalities that can be customized. You can also build your own storefront and use Medusa’s client libraries or Store API Routes to communicate with the Medusa application.

<CardList itemsPerRow={2} items={[
  {
    href: "/nextjs-starter",
    title: "Next.js Starter",
    text: "Learn about the Next.js Starter and how to install it.",
    startIcon: <NextJs />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  },
  {
    href: "/storefront-development",
    title: "Storefront Development",
    text: "Find guides for your storefront development.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  },
]} />

---

## Pass Personalized Data to the Order

If you store the personalized data using a custom module:

- Create a custom API Route that handles saving the personalization data.
- Call that API Route from the storefront after adding the item to the cart.
- Listen to the `order.placed` event to attach the personalized data to the Order Module's `LineItem` data model.

<Note type="soon">

The `order.placed` event is currently not emitted.

</Note>

<CardList items={[
  {
    href: "!docs!/basics/api-routes",
    title: "Create API Route",
    text: "Learn how to create an API route.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  },
  {
    href: "!docs!/basics/events-and-subscribers",
    title: "Create a Subscriber",
    text: "Learn how to create a subscriber.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  },
]} />

---

## Fulfill Personalized Products in Orders

To fulfill your personalized products with a third-party service or custom logic, create a fulfillment provider module.

The Fulfillment Module registers your fulfillment provider module to use it to fulfill orders.

<Card
  href="/references/fulfillment/provider"
  title="Create a Fulfillment Service"
  text="Learn how to create a fulfillment provider in Medusa."
  startIcon={<AcademicCapSolid />}
  showLinkIcon={false}
/>
