www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/payment/payment-provider/page.mdx, before:

export const metadata = {
  title: `Payment Provider`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you’ll learn what a payment provider is.

## What's a Payment Provider?

A payment provider handles payment processing. It can integrate third-party payment providers, such as Stripe or PayPal.

To authorize a payment amount with a payment provider, a payment session is created and associated with that payment provider. The payment provider is then used to handle the authorization.

After the payment session is authorized, the payment provider is associated with the resulting payment and handles its payment processing, such as to capture or refund payment.

---

## System Payment Provider

The Payment Module provides a `system` payment provider that acts as a placeholder payment provider. It doesn’t handle payment processing and delegates that to the merchant. It acts similarly to a cash-on-delivery (COD) payment method.

---

## How are Payment Providers Created?

A payment provider is a TypeScript or JavaScript class that extends the `AbstractPaymentProvider` imported from `@medusajs/utils`. It can then be used in a payment plugin or exported in a provider module.

<Note title="Tip">

Refer to [this guide](/references/payment/provider) on how to create a payment provider for the Payment Module.

</Note>

---

## Configure Payment Providers

The Payment Module accepts a `providers` option that allows you to register providers in your application.

Learn more about this option in [this documentation](../module-options/page.mdx#providers).

---

## PaymentProvider Data Model

When the Medusa application starts and registers the payment providers, it also creates a record of the `PaymentProvider` data model if none exists. This data model is used to reference a payment provider and determine whether it’s installed in the application.

Commit message:

docs: add integrations page (#7421)
* add integrations page

* update payment provider docs

* use stripe icon

www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/payment/payment-provider/page.mdx, after:

import { ChildDocs } from "docs-ui"

export const metadata = {
  title: `Payment Provider Module`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you’ll learn what a payment provider module is.

## What's a Payment Provider Module?

A payment provider module registers a payment provider that handles payment processing. It can integrate third-party payment providers, such as Stripe.

To authorize a payment amount with a payment provider, a payment session is created and associated with that payment provider. The payment provider is then used to handle the authorization.

After the payment session is authorized, the payment provider is associated with the resulting payment and handles its payment processing, such as to capture or refund payment.

### List of Payment Provider Modules

<ChildDocs type="item" />

---

## System Payment Provider

The Payment Module provides a `system` payment provider that acts as a placeholder payment provider. It doesn’t handle payment processing and delegates that to the merchant. It acts similarly to a cash-on-delivery (COD) payment method.

---

## How are Payment Providers Created?

A payment provider is a TypeScript or JavaScript class that extends the `AbstractPaymentProvider` imported from `@medusajs/utils`. It can then be exported as the main service of a module.

<Note title="Tip">

Refer to [this guide](/references/payment/provider) on how to create a payment provider for the Payment Module.

</Note>

---

## Configure Payment Providers

The Payment Module accepts a `providers` option that allows you to register providers in your application.

Learn more about this option in [this documentation](../module-options/page.mdx#providers).

---

## PaymentProvider Data Model

When the Medusa application starts and registers the payment providers, it also creates a record of the `PaymentProvider` data model if none exists. This data model is used to reference a payment provider and determine whether it’s installed in the application.
