www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/auth/persisting-auth-user/page.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Persisting Auth User"
---

export const metadata = {
  title: `Persisting Auth User Authentication`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you’ll learn what the `AuthUser` is and how to persist its authentication.

## What is an AuthUser?

As explained in the [Auth Provider](../auth-providers/page.mdx) guide, when a user or customer is authenticated, you receive an `authUser` object:

```ts
const { success, authUser } =
  await authModuleService.authenticate("emailpass", {
    // ...
  })
```

The `authUser` object is a record of the `AuthUser` data model. It has details about the authenticated user or customer, such as their ID, email, and other details.

<Note>

Learn more about the `AuthUser`'s fields in [this reference](/references/auth/models/AuthUser).

</Note>

---

## Persisting Authentication

While the Auth Module provides the authentication functionality, it doesn’t provide the functionality to persist the authentication, as that depends on your application’s requirements.

For example, the Medusa application’s authentication route signs the `authUser` object into a JSON Web Token (JWT):

```ts
const { 
  success, 
  authUser,
} = await service.authenticate(auth_provider, authData)

// ...
const { 
  jwtSecret,
} = req.scope.resolve("configModule").projectConfig.http

const token = jwt.sign(authUser, jwtSecret)
```

Then, the token is passed in the header of subsequent requests in the Authorization Bearer header.

An authentication middleware verifies the token and attaches the associated `authUser`'s details to the `auth` property of the request object passed to the subsequent middlewares and route.

If the authentication middleware can’t verify the token, the user isn’t authenticated and they’re asked to login again.

Commit message:

docs: rename auth user to auth identity (#7400)
* docs: rename auth user to auth identity

* updated protected routes guide

* Update www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/auth/examples/page.mdx

Co-authored-by: Stevche Radevski <sradevski@live.com>

* store/me -> store/customers/me

* change scope to type

* remove soon notes

---------

Co-authored-by: Stevche Radevski <sradevski@live.com>

www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/auth/persisting-auth-user/page.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Persisting Auth User"
---

export const metadata = {
  title: `Persisting Auth User Authentication`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you’ll learn what the `AuthIdentity` is and how to persist its authentication.

## What is an AuthIdentity?

As explained in the [Auth Provider](../auth-providers/page.mdx) guide, when a user or customer is authenticated, you receive an `authIdentity` object:

```ts
const { success, authIdentity } =
  await authModuleService.authenticate("emailpass", {
    // ...
  })
```

The `authIdentity` object is a record of the `AuthIdentity` data model. It has details about the authenticated user or customer, such as their ID, email, and other details.

<Note>

Learn more about the `AuthIdentity`'s fields in [this reference](/references/auth/models/AuthIdentity).

</Note>

---

## Persisting Authentication

While the Auth Module provides the authentication functionality, it doesn’t provide the functionality to persist the authentication, as that depends on your application’s requirements.

For example, the Medusa application’s authentication route signs the `authIdentity` object into a JSON Web Token (JWT):

```ts
const { 
  success, 
  authIdentity,
} = await service.authenticate(auth_provider, authData)

// ...
const { 
  jwtSecret,
} = req.scope.resolve("configModule").projectConfig.http

const token = jwt.sign(authIdentity, jwtSecret)
```

Then, the token is passed in the header of subsequent requests in the Authorization Bearer header.

An authentication middleware verifies the token and attaches the associated `authIdentity`'s details to the `auth` property of the request object passed to the subsequent middlewares and route.

If the authentication middleware can’t verify the token, the user isn’t authenticated and they’re asked to login again.
