www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/order/order-versioning/page.mdx, before:

export const metadata = {
  title: `Order Versioning`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you’ll learn how an order and its details are versioned.

## What's Versioning?

Versioning means assigning a version number to a record, such as an order and its items. This is useful to view the different versions of the order following changes in its lifetime.

---

## version Field

The `Order` and `OrderSummary` data models have a `version` field that indicates the current order version. By default, its value is `1`.

The `OrderItem` data model also has a `version` field, but it indicates the version it belongs to. For example, original items in the order have version `1`. Then, when a new item is added, its version is `2`. If an existing item is modified, such as its quantity has been changed, its version is updated.

---

## Order Change Versioning

The `OrderChange` and `OrderChangeAction` data models also have a `version` field. When an order change is created, the `version` field’s value is the associated order’s version incremented.

So, if the order’s `version` is `1`, the order change’s version is `2`.

Then, once the order change is confirmed and applied to the order, the versions of the order and order summary change to that of the order change.

![A diagram showcasing how the version of an order changes](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1712304242/Medusa%20Resources/order-versioning_rsx2rn.jpg)

Order items change depending on the version they were added or modified in, as explained in the earlier section.

Commit message:

docs: updates to use DML and other changes (#7834)
- Change existing data model guides and add new ones for DML
- Change module's docs around service factory + remove guides that are now necessary
- Hide/remove all mentions of module relationships, or label them as coming soon.
- Change all data model creation snippets to use DML
- use `property` instead of `field` when referring to a data model's properties.
- Fix all snippets in commerce module guides to use new method suffix (no more main model methods)
- Rework recipes, removing/hiding a lot of sections as a lot of recipes are incomplete with the current state of DML.


### Other changes

- Highlight fixes in some guides
- Remove feature flags guide
- Fix code block styles when there are no line numbers.

### Upcoming changes in other PRs

- Re-generate commerce module references (for the updates in the method names)
- Ensure that the data model references are generated correctly for models using DML.
- (probably at a very later point) revisit recipes

www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/order/order-versioning/page.mdx, after:

export const metadata = {
  title: `Order Versioning`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you’ll learn how an order and its details are versioned.

## What's Versioning?

Versioning means assigning a version number to a record, such as an order and its items. This is useful to view the different versions of the order following changes in its lifetime.

---

## version Property

The `Order` and `OrderSummary` data models have a `version` property that indicates the current order version. By default, its value is `1`.

The `OrderItem` data model also has a `version` property, but it indicates the version it belongs to. For example, original items in the order have version `1`. Then, when a new item is added, its version is `2`. If an existing item is modified, such as its quantity has been changed, its version is updated.

---

## Order Change Versioning

The `OrderChange` and `OrderChangeAction` data models also have a `version` property. When an order change is created, the `version` property’s value is the associated order’s version incremented.

So, if the order’s `version` is `1`, the order change’s version is `2`.

Then, once the order change is confirmed and applied to the order, the versions of the order and order summary change to that of the order change.

![A diagram showcasing how the version of an order changes](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1712304242/Medusa%20Resources/order-versioning_rsx2rn.jpg)

Order items change depending on the version they were added or modified in, as explained in the earlier section.
