---
description: 'Actions Required for v.1.3.0'
---

# v1.3.6

Following the addition of feature flags in version v1.3.3 and the addition of the Sales Channels API in v1.3.5, v1.3.6 introduces a data migration script that moves all products into the Default Sales Channel.

:::note

In version 1.3.6, Sales Channels are available but guraded by [feature flags](../../development/feature-flags/toggle.md). If you don’t have Sales Channels enabled, you don’t need to follow the steps detailed in this migration script.

:::

## Prerequisites

Before performing the actions mentioned in this guide, you must set the following environment variables:

```bash
TYPEORM_CONNECTION=postgres
TYPEORM_URL=<DATABASE_URL>
TYPEORM_LOGGING=true
TYPEORM_ENTITIES=./node_modules/@medusajs/medusa/dist/models/*.js
TYPEORM_MIGRATIONS=./node_modules/@medusajs/medusa/dist/migrations/*.js
```

These environment variables are used in the data migration scripts in this upgrade. Make sure to replace `<DATABASE_URL>` with your PostgreSQL database URL.

---

## Sales Channels

Sales Channels were introduced in v1.3.5 guarded by a [feature flag](../../development/feature-flags/toggle.md). By enabling Sales Channels, developers and users can associate products and other entities with a specific Sales Channel.

However, if you upgraded Medusa to v1.3.5 and enabled Sales Channels, you must add every product to at least one Sales Channel manually. Otherwise, products can’t be added to carts in different Sales Channels.

v1.3.6 introduces a data migration script that automates this process for you by moving all your products into a default Sales Channel. This ensures that you can use the Sales Channels feature without it affecting the user experience in your store.

### Actions Required

If you’ve enabled Sales Channels, it’s essential to run the data migration script after upgrading your backend and before starting your Medusa backend:

```bash
node ./node_modules/@medusajs/medusa/dist/scripts/sales-channels-migration.js
```
