www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/inventory/inventory-in-flows/page.mdx, before:

export const metadata = {
  title: `Inventory Module in Medusa Flows`,
}

# {metadata.title}

This document explains how the Inventory Module is used within the Medusa application's flows.

## Product Variant Creation

When a product variant is created and its `manage_inventory` field's value is `true`, the Medusa application uses the Inventory Module to create an inventory item associated with that product variant.

![A diagram showcasing how the Inventory Module is used in the product variant creation form](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1709661511/Medusa%20Resources/inventory-product-create_khz2hk.jpg)

---

## Add to Cart

When a product variant with `manage_inventory` set to `true` is added to cart, the Medusa application uses the Inventory Module to check whether there's sufficient stocked quantity. If not, an error is thrown and the product variant won't be added to the cart.

![A diagram showcasing how the Inventory Module is used in the add to cart flow](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1709711645/Medusa%20Resources/inventory-cart-flow_achwq9.jpg)

---

## Order Placed

When an order is placed, the Medusa application uses the Inventory Module to create a reservation item for each product variant with `manage_inventory` set to `true`. It also sets the `reserved_quantity` of the inventory level associated with the inventory item to the ordered quantity of that item.

![A diagram showcasing how the Inventory Module is used in the order placed flow](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1709712005/Medusa%20Resources/inventory-order-placed_qdxqdn.jpg)

---

## Order Fulfillment

When an item in an order is fulfilled and the associated variant has its `manage_inventory` field set to `true`, the Medusa application uses the Inventory Module to:

- Subtract the `reserved_quantity` from the `stocked_quantity` in the inventory level associated with the variant's inventory item.
- Reset the `reserved_quantity` to `0`.
- Delete the associated reservation item.

![A diagram showcasing how the Inventory Module is used in the order fulfillment flow](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1709712390/Medusa%20Resources/inventory-order-fulfillment_o9wdxh.jpg)

---

## Order Return

When an item in an order is returned and the associated variant has its `manage_inventory` field set to `true`, the Medusa application uses the Inventor Module to increment the `stocked_quantity` of the inventory level associated with the inventory item with the returned quantity.

![A diagram showcasing how the Inventory Module is used in the order return flow](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1709712457/Medusa%20Resources/inventory-order-return_ihftyk.jpg)

Commit message:

improve more commerce module docs

www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/inventory/inventory-in-flows/page.mdx, after:

export const metadata = {
  title: `Inventory Module in Medusa Flows`,
}

# {metadata.title}

This document explains how the Inventory Module is used within the Medusa application's flows.

## Product Variant Creation

When a product variant is created and its `manage_inventory` field's value is `true`, the Medusa application creates an inventory item associated with that product variant.

![A diagram showcasing how the Inventory Module is used in the product variant creation form](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1709661511/Medusa%20Resources/inventory-product-create_khz2hk.jpg)

---

## Add to Cart

When a product variant with `manage_inventory` set to `true` is added to cart, the Medusa application checks whether there's sufficient stocked quantity. If not, an error is thrown and the product variant won't be added to the cart.

![A diagram showcasing how the Inventory Module is used in the add to cart flow](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1709711645/Medusa%20Resources/inventory-cart-flow_achwq9.jpg)

---

## Order Placed

When an order is placed, the Medusa application creates a reservation item for each product variant with `manage_inventory` set to `true`.

![A diagram showcasing how the Inventory Module is used in the order placed flow](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1709712005/Medusa%20Resources/inventory-order-placed_qdxqdn.jpg)

---

## Order Fulfillment

When an item in an order is fulfilled and the associated variant has its `manage_inventory` field set to `true`, the Medusa application:

- Subtracts the `reserved_quantity` from the `stocked_quantity` in the inventory level associated with the variant's inventory item.
- Resets the `reserved_quantity` to `0`.
- Deletes the associated reservation item.

![A diagram showcasing how the Inventory Module is used in the order fulfillment flow](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1709712390/Medusa%20Resources/inventory-order-fulfillment_o9wdxh.jpg)

---

## Order Return

When an item in an order is returned and the associated variant has its `manage_inventory` field set to `true`, the Medusa application increments the `stocked_quantity` of the inventory item's level with the returned quantity.

![A diagram showcasing how the Inventory Module is used in the order return flow](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1709712457/Medusa%20Resources/inventory-order-return_ihftyk.jpg)
