www/apps/resources/app/storefront-development/products/price/page.mdx, before:

import { CodeTabs, CodeTab, Table } from "docs-ui"

export const metadata = {
  title: `Retrieve Product Variant's Prices in Storefront`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you'll learn how to show a product's variants' prices in the storefront, including handling sale prices.

## Pricing Query Parameters

When you retrieve products either with the [List Products](!api!/store#products_getproducts) or [Retrieve Products](!api!/store#products_getproductsid) API routes, you must pass include in the beginning of the `fields` query parameter the value `*variants.calculated_price`.

You also must pass at least one of the following query parameters to retrieve the correct product variant price:

- `region_id`: The ID of the customer's region. This parameter must be included if you want to apply taxes on the product's price.
- `country_code`: The customer's country code. This parameter must be included if you want to apply taxes on the product's price.
- `customer_id`: The ID of the customer viewing the prices. This is useful when you have a promotion or price list overriding a product's price for specific customer groups.
- `customer_group_id`: The ID of the group of the customer viewing the prices. This is useful when you have a promotion or price list overriding a product's price for specific customer groups.

---

## Product Variant's Price Properties

If you pass the parameters mentioned above, each variant has a `calculated_price` object with the following properties:

<Table>
  <Table.Header>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.HeaderCell>Property</Table.HeaderCell>
      <Table.HeaderCell>Description</Table.HeaderCell>
      <Table.HeaderCell>Notes</Table.HeaderCell>
    </Table.Row>
  </Table.Header>
  <Table.Body>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.Cell>
        `calculated_amount`
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
        The product variant's price.
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
        Show this price if you didn't supply the `region_id` and `country_code` query parameters to retrieve prices with taxes applied.
      </Table.Cell>
    </Table.Row>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.Cell>
        `calculated_amount_with_tax`
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
        The `calculated_amount` with taxes applied.
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
        This property is only available if you supply both the `region_id` and `country_code` query parameters.
      </Table.Cell>
    </Table.Row>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.Cell>
        `calculated_amount_without_tax`
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
         The `calculated_amount` without taxes applied.
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
        This property is only available if you supply both the `region_id` and `country_code` query parameters.
      </Table.Cell>
    </Table.Row>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.Cell>
        `price_list_type`
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
         The type of the variant price.
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
        If its value is `sale`, it means the `calculated_amount` is a sale price. You can show the amount before the sale using the `original_amount` property.
      </Table.Cell>
    </Table.Row>
  </Table.Body>
</Table>

---

## Examples

- [React Example: Show Product Variant's Price](./examples/show-price/page.mdx).
- [React Example: Show Product Variant's Sale Price](./examples/sale-price/page.mdx).

Commit message:

docs: added storefront guide on prices with taxes

www/apps/resources/app/storefront-development/products/price/page.mdx, after:

import { CodeTabs, CodeTab, Table } from "docs-ui"

export const metadata = {
  title: `Retrieve Product Variant's Prices in Storefront`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you'll learn how to show a product's variants' prices in the storefront, including handling sale prices.

## Pricing Query Parameters

When you retrieve products either with the [List Products](!api!/store#products_getproducts) or [Retrieve Products](!api!/store#products_getproductsid) API routes, you must include in the beginning of the `fields` query parameter the value `*variants.calculated_price`.

You also must pass at least one of the following query parameters to retrieve the correct product variant price:

- `region_id`: The ID of the customer's region. This parameter must be included if you want to apply taxes on the product's price.
- `country_code`: The customer's country code. This parameter must be included if you want to apply taxes on the product's price.
- `customer_id`: The ID of the customer viewing the prices. This is useful when you have a promotion or price list overriding a product's price for specific customer groups.
- `customer_group_id`: The ID of the group of the customer viewing the prices. This is useful when you have a promotion or price list overriding a product's price for specific customer groups.

For example:

```ts
const queryParams = new URLSearchParams({
  fields: `*variants.calculated_price`,
  region_id: region.id,
})

fetch(`http://localhost:9000/store/products/${id}?${queryParams.toString()}`, {
  credentials: "include",
  headers: {
    "x-publishable-api-key": process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_PAK || "temp",
  },
})
.then((res) => res.json())
.then(({ product }) => {
  // TODO use product
  console.log(product)
})
```

In this example, you pass the selected region's ID as a query parameter with the `fields` query parameter set to `*variants.calculated_price`.

---

## Product Variant's Price Properties

If you pass the parameters mentioned above, each variant has a `calculated_price` object with the following properties:

<Table>
  <Table.Header>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.HeaderCell>Property</Table.HeaderCell>
      <Table.HeaderCell>Description</Table.HeaderCell>
      <Table.HeaderCell>Notes</Table.HeaderCell>
    </Table.Row>
  </Table.Header>
  <Table.Body>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.Cell>
        `calculated_amount`
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
        The product variant's price.
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
        Show this price if you didn't supply the `region_id` and `country_code` query parameters to retrieve prices with taxes applied.
      </Table.Cell>
    </Table.Row>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.Cell>
        `calculated_amount_with_tax`
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
        The `calculated_amount` with taxes applied.
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
        This property is only available if you supply both the `region_id` and `country_code` query parameters.
      </Table.Cell>
    </Table.Row>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.Cell>
        `calculated_amount_without_tax`
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
         The `calculated_amount` without taxes applied.
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
        This property is only available if you supply both the `region_id` and `country_code` query parameters.
      </Table.Cell>
    </Table.Row>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.Cell>
        `price_list_type`
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
         The type of the variant price.
      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>
        If its value is `sale`, it means the `calculated_amount` is a sale price. You can show the amount before the sale using the `original_amount` property.
      </Table.Cell>
    </Table.Row>
  </Table.Body>
</Table>

## Examples

- [Example: Show Product Variant's Price](./examples/show-price/page.mdx).
- [Example: Show Product Variant's Sale Price](./examples/sale-price/page.mdx).
- [Example: Show Product Variant's Price with Taxes](./examples/tax-price/page.mdx).
