www/apps/book/app/advanced-development/workflows/parallel-steps/page.mdx, before:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Run Workflow Steps in Parallel`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you’ll learn how to run workflow steps in parallel.

## parallelize Utility Function

If your workflow has steps that don’t rely on one another’s results, you can run them in parallel. The workflow will wait until all specified steps are finished before continuing with the rest of its implementation.

The `parallelize` utility function imported from the `@medusajs/workflows-sdk` package allows you to run the steps in parallel.

For example:

export const highlights = [
  ["23", "[prices, productSalesChannel]", "The result of the steps. `prices` is the result of `createPricesStep`, and `productSalesChannel` is the result of `attachProductToSalesChannelStep`."],
  ["23", "parallelize", "Run the steps passed as parameters in parallel."],
]

```ts highlights={highlights} collapsibleLines="1-12" expandButtonLabel="Show Imports"
import {
  createWorkflow,
  parallelize,
} from "@medusajs/workflows-sdk"
import { ProductDTO } from "@medusajs/types"
import {
  createProductStep,
  getProductStep,
  createPricesStep,
  attachProductToSalesChannelStep,
} from "./steps"

interface WorkflowInput {
  title: string
}

const myWorkflow = createWorkflow<
  WorkflowInput,
  ProductDTO
>("my-workflow", (input) => {
   const product = createProductStep(input)

   const [prices, productSalesChannel] = parallelize(
     createPricesStep(product),
     attachProductToSalesChannelStep(product)
   )

   const id = product.id
   return getProductStep(product.id)
 }
)
```

The `parallelize` function accepts the steps to run in parallel as a parameter.

It returns an array of each step’s result. The results are ordered in the result array by the order they're passed in the function's parameter.

Commit message:

docs: general fixes and improvements (#7918)
* docs improvements and changes

* updated module definition

* modules + dml changes

* fix build

* fix vale error

* fix lint errors

* fixes to stripe docs

* fix condition

* fix condition

* fix module defintion

* fix checkout

* disable UI action

* change oas preview action

* flatten provider module options

* fix lint errors

* add module link docs

* pr comments fixes

* fix vale error

* change node engine version

* links -> linkable

* add note about database name

* small fixes

* link fixes

* fix response code in api reference

* added migrations step

www/apps/book/app/advanced-development/workflows/parallel-steps/page.mdx, after:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Run Workflow Steps in Parallel`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you’ll learn how to run workflow steps in parallel.

## parallelize Utility Function

If your workflow has steps that don’t rely on one another’s results, run them in parallel using the `parallelize` utility function imported from the `@medusajs/workflows-sdk`.

The workflow waits until all steps passed to the `parallelize` function finish executing before continuing with the rest of its implementation.

For example:

export const highlights = [
  ["23", "[prices, productSalesChannel]", "The result of the steps. `prices` is the result of `createPricesStep`, and `productSalesChannel` is the result of `attachProductToSalesChannelStep`."],
  ["23", "parallelize", "Run the steps passed as parameters in parallel."],
]

```ts highlights={highlights} collapsibleLines="1-12" expandButtonLabel="Show Imports"
import {
  createWorkflow,
  parallelize,
} from "@medusajs/workflows-sdk"
import { ProductDTO } from "@medusajs/types"
import {
  createProductStep,
  getProductStep,
  createPricesStep,
  attachProductToSalesChannelStep,
} from "./steps"

interface WorkflowInput {
  title: string
}

const myWorkflow = createWorkflow<
  WorkflowInput,
  ProductDTO
>("my-workflow", (input) => {
   const product = createProductStep(input)

   const [prices, productSalesChannel] = parallelize(
     createPricesStep(product),
     attachProductToSalesChannelStep(product)
   )

   const id = product.id
   return getProductStep(product.id)
 }
)
```

The `parallelize` function accepts the steps to run in parallel as a parameter.

It returns an array of the steps' results. The results are ordered based on the `parallelize` parameters' order.
