www/apps/book/app/advanced-development/api-routes/protected-routes/page.mdx, before:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Protected Routes`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you’ll learn how to create protected routes.

## Default Protected Routes

A protected route is a route that requires requests to be user-authenticated before performing the route's functionality. Otherwise, the request fails, and the user is prevented access.

Medusa applies an authentication guard on the following routes:

- Routes starting with `/admin` require an authenticated admin user.
- Routes starting with `/store/me` require an authenticated customer.

<Note>

Refer to the API Reference for [Admin](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin#authentication) and [Store](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/store#authentication) authentication methods.

</Note>

---

## Authentication Opt-Out

To disable the authentication guard on custom routes under the `/admin` or `/store/me` path prefixes, export an `AUTHENTICATE` variable in the route file with its value set to `false`.

For example:

```ts title="src/api/store/me/custom/route.ts" highlights={[["15"]]} apiTesting testApiUrl="http://localhost:9000/store/me/custom" testApiMethod="GET"
import type {
  MedusaRequest,
  MedusaResponse,
} from "@medusajs/medusa"

export const GET = async (
  req: MedusaRequest,
  res: MedusaResponse
) => {
  res.json({
    message: "Hello",
  })
}

export const AUTHENTICATE = false
```

Now, any request sent to the `/store/me/custom` API route is allowed, regardless if the customer is authenticated or not.

---

## Access Logged-In Customer

You can access the logged-in customer’s ID in all API routes starting with `/store` using the `user.customer_id` property of the `MedusaRequest` object.

For example:

```ts title="src/api/store/me/custom/route.ts" highlights={[["16", "", "Access the logged-in customer's ID."]]}
import type {
  AuthenticatedMedusaRequest,
  MedusaResponse,
} from "@medusajs/medusa"
import { ModuleRegistrationName } from "@medusajs/modules-sdk"
import { ICustomerModuleService } from "@medusajs/types"

export const GET = async (
  req: AuthenticatedMedusaRequest,
  res: MedusaResponse
) => {
  const customerService: ICustomerModuleService =
    req.scope.resolve(ModuleRegistrationName.CUSTOMER)

  const customer = await customerService.retrieve(
    req.auth.actor_id
  )

  // ...
}
```

In the route handler, you resolve the `CustomerService`, then use it to retrieve the logged-in customer, if available.

---

## Access Logged-In Admin User

You can access the logged-in admin user’s ID in all API Routes starting with `/admin` using the `user.userId` property of the `MedusaRequest` object.

For example:

```ts title="src/api/admin/custom/route.ts" highlights={[["16", "req.user.userId", "Access the logged-in admin user's ID."]]}
import type {
  AuthenticatedMedusaRequest,
  MedusaResponse,
} from "@medusajs/medusa"
import { ModuleRegistrationName } from "@medusajs/modules-sdk"
import { IUserModuleService } from "@medusajs/types"

export const GET = async (
  req: AuthenticatedMedusaRequest,
  res: MedusaResponse
) => {
  const userService: IUserModuleService = req.scope.resolve(
    ModuleRegistrationName.USER
  )

  const user = await userService.retrieve(req.auth.actor_id)

  // ...
}
```

In the route handler, you resolve the `UserService`, and then use it to retrieve the logged-in admin user.

---

## Protect Custom API Routes

To protect custom API Routes that don’t start with `/store/me` or `/admin`, use the `authenticate` middleware imported from `@medusajs/medusa`.

For example:

export const highlights = [
  ["11", "authenticate", "Only authenticated admin users can access routes starting with `/custom/admin`"],
  ["17", "authenticate", "Only authenticated customers can access routes starting with `/custom/customers`"]
]

```ts title="src/api/middlewares.ts" highlights={highlights}
// TODO update import
import { MiddlewaresConfig, authenticate } from "@medusajs/medusa"

export const config: MiddlewaresConfig = {
  routes: [
    {
      matcher: "/custom/admin*",
      middlewares: [
        authenticate("admin", ["session", "bearer", "api-key"]),
      ],
    },
    {
      matcher: "/custom/customer*",
      middlewares: [
        authenticate("store", ["session", "bearer"]),
      ],
    },
  ],
}
```

The `authenticate` middleware function accepts three parameters:

1. The scope of authentication. Use `admin` for authenticating admin users, and `store` for authenticating customers.
2. An array of the types of authentication methods allowed. Both `admin` and `store` scopes support `session` and `bearer`. The `admin` scope also supports the `api-key` authentication method.
3. An optional object of options having the following properties:
    1. `allowUnauthenticated`: (default: `false`) A boolean indicating whether authentication is required. For example, you may have an API route where you want to access the logged-in customer if available, but guest customers can still access it too. In that case, enable the `allowUnauthenticated` option.
    2. `allowUnregistered`: (default: `false`) A boolean indicating whether new users can be authenticated.

Commit message:

docs: rename auth user to auth identity (#7400)
* docs: rename auth user to auth identity

* updated protected routes guide

* Update www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/auth/examples/page.mdx

Co-authored-by: Stevche Radevski <sradevski@live.com>

* store/me -> store/customers/me

* change scope to type

* remove soon notes

---------

Co-authored-by: Stevche Radevski <sradevski@live.com>

www/apps/book/app/advanced-development/api-routes/protected-routes/page.mdx, after:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Protected Routes`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you’ll learn how to create protected routes.

## Default Protected Routes

A protected route is a route that requires requests to be user-authenticated before performing the route's functionality. Otherwise, the request fails, and the user is prevented access.

Medusa applies an authentication guard on the following routes:

- Routes starting with `/admin` require an authenticated admin user.
- Routes starting with `/store/customers/me` require an authenticated customer.

<Note>

Refer to the API Reference for [Admin](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/admin#authentication) and [Store](https://docs.medusajs.com/api/store#authentication) authentication methods.

</Note>

---

## Authentication Opt-Out

To disable the authentication guard on custom routes under the `/admin` or `/store/customers/me` path prefixes, export an `AUTHENTICATE` variable in the route file with its value set to `false`.

For example:

```ts title="src/api/store/customers/me/custom/route.ts" highlights={[["15"]]} apiTesting testApiUrl="http://localhost:9000/store/customers/me/custom" testApiMethod="GET"
import type {
  MedusaRequest,
  MedusaResponse,
} from "@medusajs/medusa"

export const GET = async (
  req: MedusaRequest,
  res: MedusaResponse
) => {
  res.json({
    message: "Hello",
  })
}

export const AUTHENTICATE = false
```

Now, any request sent to the `/store/customers/me/custom` API route is allowed, regardless if the customer is authenticated or not.

---

## Access Logged-In Customer

You can access the logged-in customer’s ID in all API routes starting with `/store` using the `user.customer_id` property of the `MedusaRequest` object.

For example:

```ts title="src/api/store/customers/me/custom/route.ts" highlights={[["16", "", "Access the logged-in customer's ID."]]}
import type {
  AuthenticatedMedusaRequest,
  MedusaResponse,
} from "@medusajs/medusa"
import { ModuleRegistrationName } from "@medusajs/modules-sdk"
import { ICustomerModuleService } from "@medusajs/types"

export const GET = async (
  req: AuthenticatedMedusaRequest,
  res: MedusaResponse
) => {
  const customerService: ICustomerModuleService =
    req.scope.resolve(ModuleRegistrationName.CUSTOMER)

  const customer = await customerService.retrieve(
    req.auth.actor_id
  )

  // ...
}
```

In the route handler, you resolve the `CustomerService`, then use it to retrieve the logged-in customer, if available.

---

## Access Logged-In Admin User

You can access the logged-in admin user’s ID in all API Routes starting with `/admin` using the `user.userId` property of the `MedusaRequest` object.

For example:

```ts title="src/api/admin/custom/route.ts" highlights={[["16", "req.user.userId", "Access the logged-in admin user's ID."]]}
import type {
  AuthenticatedMedusaRequest,
  MedusaResponse,
} from "@medusajs/medusa"
import { ModuleRegistrationName } from "@medusajs/modules-sdk"
import { IUserModuleService } from "@medusajs/types"

export const GET = async (
  req: AuthenticatedMedusaRequest,
  res: MedusaResponse
) => {
  const userService: IUserModuleService = req.scope.resolve(
    ModuleRegistrationName.USER
  )

  const user = await userService.retrieve(req.auth.actor_id)

  // ...
}
```

In the route handler, you resolve the `UserService`, and then use it to retrieve the logged-in admin user.

---

## Protect Custom API Routes

To protect custom API Routes that don’t start with `/store/customers/me` or `/admin`, use the `authenticate` middleware imported from `@medusajs/medusa`.

For example:

export const highlights = [
  ["11", "authenticate", "Only authenticated admin users can access routes starting with `/custom/admin`"],
  ["17", "authenticate", "Only authenticated customers can access routes starting with `/custom/customers`"]
]

```ts title="src/api/middlewares.ts" highlights={highlights}
// TODO update import
import { MiddlewaresConfig, authenticate } from "@medusajs/medusa"

export const config: MiddlewaresConfig = {
  routes: [
    {
      matcher: "/custom/admin*",
      middlewares: [
        authenticate("user", ["session", "bearer", "api-key"]),
      ],
    },
    {
      matcher: "/custom/customer*",
      middlewares: [
        authenticate("customer", ["session", "bearer"]),
      ],
    },
  ],
}
```

The `authenticate` middleware function accepts three parameters:

1. The type of user authenticating. Use `user` for authenticating admin users, and `customer` for authenticating customers.
2. An array of the types of authentication methods allowed. Both `user` and `customer` scopes support `session` and `bearer`. The `admin` scope also supports the `api-key` authentication method.
3. An optional object of options having the following properties:
    1. `allowUnauthenticated`: (default: `false`) A boolean indicating whether authentication is required. For example, you may have an API route where you want to access the logged-in customer if available, but guest customers can still access it too. In that case, enable the `allowUnauthenticated` option.
    2. `allowUnregistered`: (default: `false`) A boolean indicating whether new users can be authenticated.
