www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/promotion/actions/page.mdx, before:

export const metadata = {
  title: `Promotion Actions`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you’ll learn about promotion actions and how they’re computed and used.

## computeActions Method

The `IPromotionModuleService` has a `computeActions` method that returns an array of actions to perform on a cart when one or more promotions are applied.

<Note>

Refer to [the method’s reference](/references/promotion/computeActions) for full details on this method’s parameters and return type.

</Note>

Actions inform you what adjustment must be made to a cart item or shipping method. Each action is an object having the `action` field indicating the type of action.

---

## Action Types

### `addItemAdjustment` Action

The `addItemAdjustment` action indicates that an adjustment must be made to an item. For example, removing $5 off its amount.

This action has the following format:

```ts
export interface AddItemAdjustmentAction {
  action: "addItemAdjustment"
  item_id: string
  amount: number
  code: string
  description?: string
}
```

When the Medusa application receives this action type, it creates a new record of the `LineItemAdjustment` data model in the Cart Module.

<Note>

Refer to [this reference](/references/promotion/interfaces/promotion.AddItemAdjustmentAction) for details on the object’s properties.

</Note>

### `removeItemAdjustment` Action

The `removeItemAdjustment` action indicates that an adjustment must be removed from a line item. For example, remove the $5 discount.

When the Medusa application uses the `computeActions` method, it passes any previous item adjustments in the `items` property of the second parameter.

This action has the following format:

```ts
export interface RemoveItemAdjustmentAction {
  action: "removeItemAdjustment"
  adjustment_id: string
  description?: string
  code: string
}
```

When the Medusa application receives this action type, it removes the `LineItemAdjustment` with the specified ID in the `adjustment_id` property.

<Note>

Refer to [this reference](/references/promotion/interfaces/promotion.RemoveItemAdjustmentAction) for details on the object’s properties.

</Note>

### `addShippingMethodAdjustment` Action

The `addShippingMethodAdjustment` action indicates that an adjustment must be made on a shipping method. For example, make the shipping method free.

This action has the following format:

```ts
export interface AddShippingMethodAdjustment {
  action: "addShippingMethodAdjustment"
  shipping_method_id: string
  amount: number
  code: string
  description?: string
}
```

When the Medusa application receives this action type, it creates a new record of the `ShippingMethodAdjustment` data model in the Cart Module.

<Note>

Refer to [this reference](/references/promotion/interfaces/promotion.AddShippingMethodAdjustment) for details on the object’s properties.

</Note>

### `removeShippingMethodAdjustment` Action

The `removeShippingMethodAdjustment` action indicates that an adjustment must be removed from a shipping method. For example, remove the free shipping discount.

When the Medusa application uses the `computeActions` method, it passes any previous shipping method adjustments in the `shipping_methods` property of the second parameter.

This action has the following format:

```ts
export interface RemoveShippingMethodAdjustment {
  action: "removeShippingMethodAdjustment"
  adjustment_id: string
  code: string
}
```

When the Medusa application receives this action type, it removes the `ShippingMethodAdjustment` with the specified ID in the `adjustment_id` property.

<Note>

Refer to [this reference](/references/promotion/interfaces/promotion.RemoveShippingMethodAdjustment) for details on the object’s properties.

</Note>

### `campaignBudgetExceeded` Action

When the `campaignBudgetExceeded` action is returned, the promotions within a campaign can no longer be used as the campaign budget has been exceeded.

This action has the following format:

```ts
export interface CampaignBudgetExceededAction {
  action: "campaignBudgetExceeded"
  code: string
}
```

The Medusa Application considers this an error, so it doesn’t apply the promotions on the cart.

<Note>

Refer to [this reference](/references/promotion/interfaces/promotion.CampaignBudgetExceededAction) for details on the object’s properties.

</Note>

Commit message:

docs: edits and fixes to commerce module docs (#7468)
Apply edits and fixes to the commerce modules docs

www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/promotion/actions/page.mdx, after:

export const metadata = {
  title: `Promotion Actions`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you’ll learn about promotion actions and how they’re computed and used.

## computeActions Method

The Promotion Module's main service has a [computeActions method](/references/promotion/computeActions) that returns an array of actions to perform on a cart when one or more promotions are applied.

Actions inform you what adjustment must be made to a cart item or shipping method. Each action is an object having the `action` field indicating the type of action.

---

## Action Types

### `addItemAdjustment` Action

The `addItemAdjustment` action indicates that an adjustment must be made to an item. For example, removing $5 off its amount.

This action has the following format:

```ts
export interface AddItemAdjustmentAction {
  action: "addItemAdjustment"
  item_id: string
  amount: number
  code: string
  description?: string
}
```

This action means that a new record should be created of the `LineItemAdjustment` data model in the Cart Module.

<Note>

Refer to [this reference](/references/promotion/interfaces/promotion.AddItemAdjustmentAction) for details on the object’s properties.

</Note>

### `removeItemAdjustment` Action

The `removeItemAdjustment` action indicates that an adjustment must be removed from a line item. For example, remove the $5 discount.

The `computeActions` method accepts any previous item adjustments in the `items` property of the second parameter.

This action has the following format:

```ts
export interface RemoveItemAdjustmentAction {
  action: "removeItemAdjustment"
  adjustment_id: string
  description?: string
  code: string
}
```

This action means that a new record should be removed of the `LineItemAdjustment` with the specified ID in the `adjustment_id` property.

<Note>

Refer to [this reference](/references/promotion/interfaces/promotion.RemoveItemAdjustmentAction) for details on the object’s properties.

</Note>

### `addShippingMethodAdjustment` Action

The `addShippingMethodAdjustment` action indicates that an adjustment must be made on a shipping method. For example, make the shipping method free.

This action has the following format:

```ts
export interface AddShippingMethodAdjustment {
  action: "addShippingMethodAdjustment"
  shipping_method_id: string
  amount: number
  code: string
  description?: string
}
```

This action means that a new record should be created of the `ShippingMethodAdjustment` data model in the Cart Module.

<Note>

Refer to [this reference](/references/promotion/interfaces/promotion.AddShippingMethodAdjustment) for details on the object’s properties.

</Note>

### `removeShippingMethodAdjustment` Action

The `removeShippingMethodAdjustment` action indicates that an adjustment must be removed from a shipping method. For example, remove the free shipping discount.

The `computeActions` method accepts any previous shipping method adjustments in the `shipping_methods` property of the second parameter.

This action has the following format:

```ts
export interface RemoveShippingMethodAdjustment {
  action: "removeShippingMethodAdjustment"
  adjustment_id: string
  code: string
}
```

When the Medusa application receives this action type, it removes the `ShippingMethodAdjustment` with the specified ID in the `adjustment_id` property.

<Note>

Refer to [this reference](/references/promotion/interfaces/promotion.RemoveShippingMethodAdjustment) for details on the object’s properties.

</Note>

### `campaignBudgetExceeded` Action

When the `campaignBudgetExceeded` action is returned, the promotions within a campaign can no longer be used as the campaign budget has been exceeded.

This action has the following format:

```ts
export interface CampaignBudgetExceededAction {
  action: "campaignBudgetExceeded"
  code: string
}
```

<Note>

Refer to [this reference](/references/promotion/interfaces/promotion.CampaignBudgetExceededAction) for details on the object’s properties.

</Note>
