www/apps/book/app/architectural-concepts/architectural-modules/page.mdx, before:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Architectural Modules`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you’ll learn about architectural modules.

## What is an Architectural Module?

An architectural module implements features and mechanisms related to the Medusa application’s architecture and infrastructure.

Since modules are interchangeable, you have more control over Medusa’s architecture. For example, you can choose to use Memcached for event handling instead of Redis.

<Note>

Refer to the [Architectural Modules reference](!resources!/architectural-modules) for a list of Medusa’s architectural modules.

</Note>

---

## How to Create an Architectural Module?

You create an architectural module like you’ve been creating custom modules: create a module with a service and export that service in the module’s definition file. The module's service extends an abstract class or interface provided by Medusa with predefined method signatures. 

The next chapters explain the different architectural module types and how to create an architectural module for each.

Commit message:

docs: fixes and changes based on latest updates (#7322)
* docs: changes based on DX changes

* remove fields no longer needed

* remove unnecessary parameters

* fixes to authenticate middleware usage

* add highlight to migrations config

* change configuration to http

* added missing remote link docs

* fix name in sidebar

* added notification module docs + updated file module docs

* add vale exceptions

* fix vale errors

* added docs on custom cli scripts

www/apps/book/app/architectural-concepts/architectural-modules/page.mdx, after:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Architectural Modules`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you’ll learn about architectural modules.

## What is an Architectural Module?

An architectural module implements features and mechanisms related to the Medusa application’s architecture and infrastructure.

Since modules are interchangeable, you have more control over Medusa’s architecture. For example, you can choose to use Memcached for event handling instead of Redis.

---

### Architectural Module Type

There are different architectural module types including:

![Diagram illustrating how the modules connect to third-party services](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1716197340/Medusa%20Book/architectural-modules_bj9bb9.jpg)

- Cache Module: Defines the caching mechanism or logic to cache computational results.
- Event Module: Integrates a pub/sub service to handle subscribing to and emitting events.
- File Module: Integrates a storage service to handle uploading files.
- Notification Module: Integrates a third-party service or defines custom logic to send notifications to users and customers.

---

## Architectural Modules List

Refer to the [Architectural Modules reference](!resources!/architectural-modules) for a list of Medusa’s architectural modules, available modules to install, and how to create an architectural module.
