www/apps/resources/app/recipes/multi-region-store/page.mdx, before:

import { AcademicCapSolid, UsersSolid } from "@medusajs/icons"
import { LearningPath } from "docs-ui"

export const metadata = {
  title: `Multi-Region Store Recipe`,
}

# {metadata.title}

This recipe provides the general steps to build a multi-region store with Medusa.

## Overview

A multi-regional store allows merchants to sell across different countries. This includes supporting each country's tax rules, currency, available shipping and payment options, and more.

Medusa comes with multi-regional support out of the box. This recipe explains how to benefit from Medusa's features to create a multi-regional store.

---

## Multi-Region Setup

In Medusa, you can create unlimited regions in your store. Each region has configurations managed through the Medusa Admin or the Admin REST APIs.

### Currency

Merchants specify the currency of each region. Multiple regions can have the same currency, but a region has only one currency.

When customers view your products from a region, they see the prices in the region’s currency.

### Tax rates and providers

Merchants define a default tax rate and tax rates for specific conditions (for example, for a particular set of products) in a region. Each region also has a different tax provider that calculates the taxes. You can use Medusa's default tax provider or create a custom tax provider.

During checkout, the taxes are calculated based on the customer's region, tax configurations, and rates.

<CardList items={[
  {
    href: "#",
    title: "Manage Taxes in Medusa Admin",
    text: "Manage taxes in Medusa Admin.",
    startIcon: <UsersSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false,
    badge: {
      variant: "blue",
      children: "Guide Soon"
    }
  },
  {
    href: "!api!/admin#tax-regions_posttaxregions",
    title: "Manage Taxes Using Admin APIs",
    text: "Manage tax settings using the Admin APIs.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  },
]} />

<Card
  href="/references/tax/provider"
  title="Create Tax Provider"
  text="Learn how to create a tax provider."
  startIcon={<AcademicCapSolid />}
  showLinkIcon={false}
  className="mt-1"
/>


### Payment and Fulfillment Providers

Merchants choose which payment and fulfillment providers are available in each region. For example, one region can use Payment Provider A and B while another only uses Payment Provider B.

During checkout, customers only see the payment providers and shipping options configured for the region. This lets you give customers a localized experience that feels familiar and instills trust.

Medusa provides official provider modules for payment and fulfillment. You can also create custom provider modules.

<CardList items={[
  {
    href: "#",
    title: "Manage Providers in Medusa Admin",
    text: "Learn how to manage providers in Medusa Admin.",
    startIcon: <UsersSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false,
    badge: {
      variant: "blue",
      children: "Guide Soon"
    }
  },
  {
    href: "/integrations",
    title: "Integrations",
    text: "Check out available integrations, including payment provider modules.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  },
]} />

---

## Prices Per Region and Currency

Merchants sets the price of a product price per currency and region. This also applies to adding sales or overriding prices for specific conditions using the Pricing Module's features.

Using the tax-inclusive feature, merchants can specify prices including taxes per currency and region. Medusa then calculates the tax amount applied to a line item in the cart based on the region's tax configurations.

<CardList items={[
  {
    href: "#",
    title: "Setting Product Prices in Medusa Admin",
    text: "Learn how to set a product prices in Medusa Admin.",
    startIcon: <UsersSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false,
    badge: {
      variant: "blue",
      children: "Guide Soon"
    }
  },
  {
    href: "/storefront-development/products/price",
    title: "Display Product Price in Storefront",
    text: "Learn how to display the correct product price in a storefront.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false,
  },
]} />

---

## Multi-Warehouse Support

Medusa's Inventory and Stock Location Modules provide multi-warehouse features that allow merchants to manage inventory across different locations. Merchants then control which location an item in an order is fulfilled, allowing them to keep a correct inventory count across locations and sales channels.

A multi-regional setup lets merchants manage their inventory through Medusa across the different regions they serve. Customers are always shown accurate inventory information based on the location associated with their sales channel.

{/* TODO add links */}

<CardList items={[
  {
    href: "#",
    title: "Manage Stock Locations",
    text: "Learn how to manage stock locations in the Medusa Admin.",
    startIcon: <UsersSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false,
    badge: {
      variant: "blue",
      children: "Guide Soon"
    }
  },
  {
    href: "#",
    title: "Manage Inventory",
    text: "Learn how to manage inventory in the Medusa Admin.",
    startIcon: <UsersSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false,
    badge: {
      variant: "blue",
      children: "Guide Soon"
    }
  },
]} />

---

## Multi-Lingual Setup

By integrating a third-party Content Management Systems (CMS), you benefit from rich content features including managing your content in multiple languages. This allows you to cater to customers’ different languages in the regions you serve.

To integrate a third-party system, create a custom module whose main service connects to that third-party service.

<Card
  href="!docs!/basics/modules-and-services"
  title="Create a Module"
  text="Learn how to create a module in Medusa."
  startIcon={<AcademicCapSolid />}
  showLinkIcon={false}
/>

Commit message:

docs: rename provider module to module provider (#7869)
* docs: rename provider module to module provider

* fix vale rule

* vale fixes

www/apps/resources/app/recipes/multi-region-store/page.mdx, after:

import { AcademicCapSolid, UsersSolid } from "@medusajs/icons"
import { LearningPath } from "docs-ui"

export const metadata = {
  title: `Multi-Region Store Recipe`,
}

# {metadata.title}

This recipe provides the general steps to build a multi-region store with Medusa.

## Overview

A multi-regional store allows merchants to sell across different countries. This includes supporting each country's tax rules, currency, available shipping and payment options, and more.

Medusa comes with multi-regional support out of the box. This recipe explains how to benefit from Medusa's features to create a multi-regional store.

---

## Multi-Region Setup

In Medusa, you can create unlimited regions in your store. Each region has configurations managed through the Medusa Admin or the Admin REST APIs.

### Currency

Merchants specify the currency of each region. Multiple regions can have the same currency, but a region has only one currency.

When customers view your products from a region, they see the prices in the region’s currency.

### Tax rates and providers

Merchants define a default tax rate and tax rates for specific conditions (for example, for a particular set of products) in a region. Each region also has a different tax provider that calculates the taxes. You can use Medusa's default tax provider or create a custom tax provider.

During checkout, the taxes are calculated based on the customer's region, tax configurations, and rates.

<CardList items={[
  {
    href: "#",
    title: "Manage Taxes in Medusa Admin",
    text: "Manage taxes in Medusa Admin.",
    startIcon: <UsersSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false,
    badge: {
      variant: "blue",
      children: "Guide Soon"
    }
  },
  {
    href: "!api!/admin#tax-regions_posttaxregions",
    title: "Manage Taxes Using Admin APIs",
    text: "Manage tax settings using the Admin APIs.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  },
]} />

<Card
  href="/references/tax/provider"
  title="Create Tax Provider"
  text="Learn how to create a tax provider."
  startIcon={<AcademicCapSolid />}
  showLinkIcon={false}
  className="mt-1"
/>


### Payment and Fulfillment Providers

Merchants choose which payment and fulfillment providers are available in each region. For example, one region can use Payment Provider A and B while another only uses Payment Provider B.

During checkout, customers only see the payment providers and shipping options configured for the region. This lets you give customers a localized experience that feels familiar and instills trust.

Medusa provides official module providers for payment and fulfillment. You can also create custom module providers.

<CardList items={[
  {
    href: "#",
    title: "Manage Providers in Medusa Admin",
    text: "Learn how to manage providers in Medusa Admin.",
    startIcon: <UsersSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false,
    badge: {
      variant: "blue",
      children: "Guide Soon"
    }
  },
  {
    href: "/integrations",
    title: "Integrations",
    text: "Check out available integrations, including payment module providers.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false
  },
]} />

---

## Prices Per Region and Currency

Merchants sets the price of a product price per currency and region. This also applies to adding sales or overriding prices for specific conditions using the Pricing Module's features.

Using the tax-inclusive feature, merchants can specify prices including taxes per currency and region. Medusa then calculates the tax amount applied to a line item in the cart based on the region's tax configurations.

<CardList items={[
  {
    href: "#",
    title: "Setting Product Prices in Medusa Admin",
    text: "Learn how to set a product prices in Medusa Admin.",
    startIcon: <UsersSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false,
    badge: {
      variant: "blue",
      children: "Guide Soon"
    }
  },
  {
    href: "/storefront-development/products/price",
    title: "Display Product Price in Storefront",
    text: "Learn how to display the correct product price in a storefront.",
    startIcon: <AcademicCapSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false,
  },
]} />

---

## Multi-Warehouse Support

Medusa's Inventory and Stock Location Modules provide multi-warehouse features that allow merchants to manage inventory across different locations. Merchants then control which location an item in an order is fulfilled, allowing them to keep a correct inventory count across locations and sales channels.

A multi-regional setup lets merchants manage their inventory through Medusa across the different regions they serve. Customers are always shown accurate inventory information based on the location associated with their sales channel.

{/* TODO add links */}

<CardList items={[
  {
    href: "#",
    title: "Manage Stock Locations",
    text: "Learn how to manage stock locations in the Medusa Admin.",
    startIcon: <UsersSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false,
    badge: {
      variant: "blue",
      children: "Guide Soon"
    }
  },
  {
    href: "#",
    title: "Manage Inventory",
    text: "Learn how to manage inventory in the Medusa Admin.",
    startIcon: <UsersSolid />,
    showLinkIcon: false,
    badge: {
      variant: "blue",
      children: "Guide Soon"
    }
  },
]} />

---

## Multi-Lingual Setup

By integrating a third-party Content Management Systems (CMS), you benefit from rich content features including managing your content in multiple languages. This allows you to cater to customers’ different languages in the regions you serve.

To integrate a third-party system, create a custom module whose main service connects to that third-party service.

<Card
  href="!docs!/basics/modules-and-services"
  title="Create a Module"
  text="Learn how to create a module in Medusa."
  startIcon={<AcademicCapSolid />}
  showLinkIcon={false}
/>
