www/apps/book/app/advanced-development/data-models/configure-properties/page.mdx, before:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Configure Data Model Properties`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you’ll learn how to configure data model properties, such as setting their default value.

## Property’s Default Value

Use the `default` method of the `model` utility to specify the default value of a property.

For example:

export const defaultHighlights = [
  ["6", "default", "Set the default value to `black`."],
  ["9", "default", "Set the default value to `0`."]
]

```ts highlights={defaultHighlights}
import { model } from "@medusajs/utils"

const MyCustom = model.define("my_custom", {
  color: model
    .enum(["black", "white"])
    .default("black"),
  age: model
    .number()
    .default(0),
  // ...
})

export default MyCustom
```

In this example, you set the default value of the `color` enum property to `black`, and that of the `age` number property to `0`.

---

## Nullable Property

Use the `nullable` method to indicate that a property’s value can be `null`.

For example:

export const nullableHighlights = [
  ["4", "nullable", "Configure the `price` property to allow `null` values."]
]

```ts highlights={nullableHighlights}
import { model } from "@medusajs/utils"

const MyCustom = model.define("my_custom", {
  price: model.bigNumber().nullable(),
  // ...
})

export default MyCustom
```

---

## Unique Property

The `unique` method indicates that a property’s value must be unique in the database.

For example:

export const uniqueHighlights = [
  ["4", "unique", "Configure the `email` property to allow unique values only."]
]

```ts highlights={uniqueHighlights}
import { model } from "@medusajs/utils"

const User = model.define("user", {
  email: model.text().unique(),
  // ...
})

export default User
```

In this example, multiple users can’t have the same email.

Commit message:

docs: general fixes and improvements (#7918)
* docs improvements and changes

* updated module definition

* modules + dml changes

* fix build

* fix vale error

* fix lint errors

* fixes to stripe docs

* fix condition

* fix condition

* fix module defintion

* fix checkout

* disable UI action

* change oas preview action

* flatten provider module options

* fix lint errors

* add module link docs

* pr comments fixes

* fix vale error

* change node engine version

* links -> linkable

* add note about database name

* small fixes

* link fixes

* fix response code in api reference

* added migrations step

www/apps/book/app/advanced-development/data-models/configure-properties/page.mdx, after:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Configure Data Model Properties`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you’ll learn how to configure data model properties.

## Property’s Default Value

Use the `default` method on a property's definition to specify the default value of a property.

For example:

export const defaultHighlights = [
  ["6", "default", "Set the default value to `black`."],
  ["9", "default", "Set the default value to `0`."]
]

```ts highlights={defaultHighlights}
import { model } from "@medusajs/utils"

const MyCustom = model.define("my_custom", {
  color: model
    .enum(["black", "white"])
    .default("black"),
  age: model
    .number()
    .default(0),
  // ...
})

export default MyCustom
```

In this example, you set the default value of the `color` enum property to `black`, and that of the `age` number property to `0`.

---

## Nullable Property

Use the `nullable` method to indicate that a property’s value can be `null`.

For example:

export const nullableHighlights = [
  ["4", "nullable", "Configure the `price` property to allow `null` values."]
]

```ts highlights={nullableHighlights}
import { model } from "@medusajs/utils"

const MyCustom = model.define("my_custom", {
  price: model.bigNumber().nullable(),
  // ...
})

export default MyCustom
```

---

## Unique Property

The `unique` method indicates that a property’s value must be unique in the database through a unique index.

For example:

export const uniqueHighlights = [
  ["4", "unique", "Configure the `email` property to allow unique values only."]
]

```ts highlights={uniqueHighlights}
import { model } from "@medusajs/utils"

const User = model.define("user", {
  email: model.text().unique(),
  // ...
})

export default User
```

In this example, multiple users can’t have the same email.
