www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/pricing/price-calculation/page.mdx, before:

import { Tabs, TabsList, TabsTrigger, TabsContent, TabsContentWrapper, TypeList } from "docs-ui"

export const metadata = {
  title: `Prices Calculation Strategy`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you'll learn how prices are calculated when you use the `calculatePrices` method of the Pricing Module's main service.

## calculatePrices Method

The [calculatePrices method](/references/pricing/calculatePrices) accepts as parameters the ID of one or more price sets and a context.

It returns a price object with the best matching price for each price set.

---

## Calculation Context

The calculation context is an optional object passed as a second parameter to the `calculatePrices` method. It accepts rules to restrict the selected prices in the price set.

For example:

```ts
const price = await pricingModuleService.calculatePrices(
  { id: [priceSetId] },
  {
    context: {
      currency_code: currencyCode,
      region_id: "reg_123",
    },
  }
)
```

---

## Returned Price Object

For each price set, the method selects two prices:

- The calculated price: Either the best context-matching price that belongs to a price list or the same as the original price.
- The original price: Either the same as the calculated price if its price list is of type `override`, or the best context-matching price that doesn't belong to a price list.

Both prices are returned in an object along with the following properties:

<TypeList
  types={[
    {
      name: "id",
      type: "`string`",
      description: "The ID of the price set from which the price was selected."
    },
    {
      name: "is_calculated_price_price_list",
      type: "`boolean`",
      description: "Whether the calculated price belongs to a price list."
    },
    {
      name: "calculated_amount",
      type: "`number`",
      description: "The amount of the calculated price, or `null` if there isn't a calculated price."
    },
    {
      name: "is_original_price_price_list",
      type: "`boolean`",
      description: "Whether the original price belongs to a price list."
    },
    {
      name: "original_amount",
      type: "`number`",
      description: "The amount of the original price, or `null` if there isn't an original price."
    },
    {
      name: "currency_code",
      type: "`string`",
      description: "The currency code of the calculated price, or `null` if there isn't a calculated price."
    },
    {
      name: "calculated_price",
      type: "`object`",
      description: "The calculated price's price details.",
      children: [
        {
          name: "id",
          type: "`string`",
          description: "The ID of the price."
        },
        {
          name: "price_list_id",
          type: "`string`",
          description: "The ID of the associated price list."
        },
        {
          name: "price_list_type",
          type: "`string`",
          description: "The price list's type."
        },
        {
          name: "min_quantity",
          type: "`number`",
          description: "The price's min quantity condition."
        },
        {
          name: "max_quantity",
          type: "`number`",
          description: "The price's max quantity condition."
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      name: "original_price",
      type: "`object`",
      description: "The original price's price details.",
      children: [
        {
          name: "id",
          type: "`string`",
          description: "The ID of the price."
        },
        {
          name: "price_list_id",
          type: "`string`",
          description: "The ID of the associated price list."
        },
        {
          name: "price_list_type",
          type: "`string`",
          description: "The price list's type."
        },
        {
          name: "min_quantity",
          type: "`number`",
          description: "The price's min quantity condition."
        },
        {
          name: "max_quantity",
          type: "`number`",
          description: "The price's max quantity condition."
        }
      ]
    }
  ]}
  sectionTitle="Returned Calculated Price"
/>

---

## Examples

Consider the following price set:

```ts
const priceSet = await pricingModuleService.createPriceSets({
  prices: [
    // default price
    {
      amount: 500,
      currency_code: "EUR",
      rules: {},
    },
    // prices with rules
    {
      amount: 400,
      currency_code: "EUR",
      rules: {
        region_id: "reg_123",
      },
    },
    {
      amount: 450,
      currency_code: "EUR",
      rules: {
        city: "krakow",
      },
    },
    {
      amount: 500,
      currency_code: "EUR",
      rules: {
        city: "warsaw",
        region_id: "reg_123",
      },
    },
  ],
})
```

### Default Price Selection

<Tabs defaultValue="code">
  <TabsList>
    <TabsTrigger value="code">Code</TabsTrigger>
    <TabsTrigger value="result">Result</TabsTrigger>
  </TabsList>
  <TabsContentWrapper>
    <TabsContent value="code">

    ```ts
    const price = await pricingModuleService.calculatePrices(
      { id: [priceSet.id] },
      {
        context: {
          currency_code: "EUR"
        }
      }
    )
    ```

    </TabsContent>
    <TabsContent value="result">

    The returned price is:

    ```ts
    const price = {
      id: "<PRICE_SET_ID>",
      is_calculated_price_price_list: false,
      calculated_amount: 500,

      is_original_price_price_list: false,
      original_amount: 500,

      currency_code: "EUR",

      calculated_price: {
        price_id: "<DEFAULT_PRICE_ID>",
        price_list_id: null,
        price_list_type: null,
        min_quantity: null,
        max_quantity: null,
      },

      original_price: {
        price_id: "<DEFAULT_PRICE_ID>",
        price_list_id: null,
        price_list_type: null,
        min_quantity: null,
        max_quantity: null,
      },
    }
    ```

    - Original price selection: since there are no provided rules in the context, the original price is the default price.
    - Calculated price selection: since there are no associated price lists, the calculated price is set to the original price.

    </TabsContent>
  </TabsContentWrapper>
</Tabs>

### Calculate Prices with Rules

<Tabs defaultValue="code">
  <TabsList>
    <TabsTrigger value="code">Code</TabsTrigger>
    <TabsTrigger value="result">Result</TabsTrigger>
  </TabsList>
  <TabsContentWrapper>
    <TabsContent value="code">

    ```ts
    const price = await pricingModuleService.calculatePrices(
      { id: [priceSet.id] },
      {
        context: {
          currency_code: "EUR",
          region_id: "reg_123",
          city: "krakow"
        }
      }
    )
    ```

    </TabsContent>
    <TabsContent value="result">

    The returned price is:

    ```ts
    const price = {
      id: "<PRICE_SET_ID>",
      is_calculated_price_price_list: false,
      calculated_amount: 500,

      is_original_price_price_list: false,
      original_amount: 500,

      currency_code: "EUR",

      calculated_price: {
        price_id: "<FOURTH_PRICE_ID>",
        price_list_id: null,
        price_list_type: null,
        min_quantity: null,
        max_quantity: null,
      },

      original_price: {
        price_id: "<FOURTH_PRICE_ID>",
        price_list_id: null,
        price_list_type: null,
        min_quantity: null,
        max_quantity: null,
      },
    }
    ```

    - Original price selection: The fourth price in the price list is selected as the best price.
    - Calculated price selection: since there are no associated price lists, the calculated price is set to the original price.

    </TabsContent>
  </TabsContentWrapper>
</Tabs>

### Price Selection with Price List

<Tabs defaultValue="code">
  <TabsList>
    <TabsTrigger value="code">Code</TabsTrigger>
    <TabsTrigger value="result">Result</TabsTrigger>
  </TabsList>
  <TabsContentWrapper>
    <TabsContent value="code">

    ```ts
    const priceList = pricingModuleService.createPriceLists([{
      title: "Summer Price List",
      description: "Price list for summer sale",
      starts_at: Date.parse("01/10/2023").toString(),
      ends_at: Date.parse("31/10/2023").toString(),
      rules: {
        region_id: ['PL']
      },
      type: "sale",
      prices: [
        {
          amount: 400,
          currency_code: "EUR",
          price_set_id: priceSet.id,
        },
        {
          amount: 450,
          currency_code: "EUR",
          price_set_id: priceSet.id,
        },
      ],
    }]);

    const price = await pricingModuleService.calculatePrices(
      { id: [priceSet.id] },
      {
        context: {
          currency_code: "EUR",
          region_id: "PL",
          city: "krakow"
        }
      }
    )
    ```

    </TabsContent>
    <TabsContent value="result">

    The returned price is:

    ```ts
    const price = {
      id: "<PRICE_SET_ID>",
      is_calculated_price_price_list: true,
      calculated_amount: 400,

      is_original_price_price_list: false,
      original_amount: 500,

      currency_code: "EUR",

      calculated_price: {
        price_id: "<FOURTH_PRICE_ID>",
        price_list_id: null,
        price_list_type: null,
        min_quantity: null,
        max_quantity: null,
      },

      original_price: {
        price_id: "<PL_PRICE_ID_1>",
        price_list_id: "<PRICE_LIST_ID>",
        price_list_type: "sale",
        min_quantity: null,
        max_quantity: null,
      },
    }
    ```

    - Original price selection: The fourth price in the price list is selected as the best price.
    - Calculated price selection: The first price of the price list is selected as the best price.

    </TabsContent>
  </TabsContentWrapper>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

docs: added tax-inclusive conceptual guide and updates to storefront guide

www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/pricing/price-calculation/page.mdx, after:

import { Tabs, TabsList, TabsTrigger, TabsContent, TabsContentWrapper, TypeList } from "docs-ui"

export const metadata = {
  title: `Prices Calculation`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you'll learn how prices are calculated when you use the `calculatePrices` method of the Pricing Module's main service.

## calculatePrices Method

The [calculatePrices method](/references/pricing/calculatePrices) accepts as parameters the ID of one or more price sets and a context.

It returns a price object with the best matching price for each price set.

---

## Calculation Context

The calculation context is an optional object passed as a second parameter to the `calculatePrices` method. It accepts rules to restrict the selected prices in the price set.

For example:

```ts
const price = await pricingModuleService.calculatePrices(
  { id: [priceSetId] },
  {
    context: {
      currency_code: currencyCode,
      region_id: "reg_123",
    },
  }
)
```

---

## Returned Price Object

For each price set, the method selects two prices:

- The calculated price: Either the best context-matching price that belongs to a price list or the same as the original price.
- The original price: Either the same as the calculated price if its price list is of type `override`, or the best context-matching price that doesn't belong to a price list.

Both prices are returned in an object along with the following properties:

<TypeList
  types={[
    {
      name: "id",
      type: "`string`",
      description: "The ID of the price set from which the price was selected."
    },
    {
      name: "is_calculated_price_price_list",
      type: "`boolean`",
      description: "Whether the calculated price belongs to a price list."
    },
    {
      name: "calculated_amount",
      type: "`number`",
      description: "The amount of the calculated price, or `null` if there isn't a calculated price."
    },
    {
      name: "is_original_price_price_list",
      type: "`boolean`",
      description: "Whether the original price belongs to a price list."
    },
    {
      name: "original_amount",
      type: "`number`",
      description: "The amount of the original price, or `null` if there isn't an original price."
    },
    {
      name: "currency_code",
      type: "`string`",
      description: "The currency code of the calculated price, or `null` if there isn't a calculated price."
    },
    {
      name: "is_calculated_price_tax_inclusive",
      type: "`boolean`",
      description: "Whether the calculated price is tax inclusive. Learn more about tax-inclusivity in [this document](../tax-inclusive-pricing/page.mdx)"
    },
    {
      name: "is_original_price_tax_inclusive",
      type: "`boolean`",
      description: "Whether the original price is tax inclusive. Learn more about tax-inclusivity in [this document](../tax-inclusive-pricing/page.mdx)"
    },
    {
      name: "calculated_price",
      type: "`object`",
      description: "The calculated price's price details.",
      children: [
        {
          name: "id",
          type: "`string`",
          description: "The ID of the price."
        },
        {
          name: "price_list_id",
          type: "`string`",
          description: "The ID of the associated price list."
        },
        {
          name: "price_list_type",
          type: "`string`",
          description: "The price list's type."
        },
        {
          name: "min_quantity",
          type: "`number`",
          description: "The price's min quantity condition."
        },
        {
          name: "max_quantity",
          type: "`number`",
          description: "The price's max quantity condition."
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      name: "original_price",
      type: "`object`",
      description: "The original price's price details.",
      children: [
        {
          name: "id",
          type: "`string`",
          description: "The ID of the price."
        },
        {
          name: "price_list_id",
          type: "`string`",
          description: "The ID of the associated price list."
        },
        {
          name: "price_list_type",
          type: "`string`",
          description: "The price list's type."
        },
        {
          name: "min_quantity",
          type: "`number`",
          description: "The price's min quantity condition."
        },
        {
          name: "max_quantity",
          type: "`number`",
          description: "The price's max quantity condition."
        }
      ]
    }
  ]}
  sectionTitle="Returned Calculated Price"
/>

---

## Examples

Consider the following price set:

```ts
const priceSet = await pricingModuleService.createPriceSets({
  prices: [
    // default price
    {
      amount: 500,
      currency_code: "EUR",
      rules: {},
    },
    // prices with rules
    {
      amount: 400,
      currency_code: "EUR",
      rules: {
        region_id: "reg_123",
      },
    },
    {
      amount: 450,
      currency_code: "EUR",
      rules: {
        city: "krakow",
      },
    },
    {
      amount: 500,
      currency_code: "EUR",
      rules: {
        city: "warsaw",
        region_id: "reg_123",
      },
    },
  ],
})
```

### Default Price Selection

<Tabs defaultValue="code">
  <TabsList>
    <TabsTrigger value="code">Code</TabsTrigger>
    <TabsTrigger value="result">Result</TabsTrigger>
  </TabsList>
  <TabsContentWrapper>
    <TabsContent value="code">

    ```ts
    const price = await pricingModuleService.calculatePrices(
      { id: [priceSet.id] },
      {
        context: {
          currency_code: "EUR"
        }
      }
    )
    ```

    </TabsContent>
    <TabsContent value="result">

    The returned price is:

    ```ts
    const price = {
      id: "<PRICE_SET_ID>",
      is_calculated_price_price_list: false,
      calculated_amount: 500,

      is_original_price_price_list: false,
      original_amount: 500,

      currency_code: "EUR",

      is_calculated_price_tax_inclusive: false,
      is_original_price_tax_inclusive: false,

      calculated_price: {
        price_id: "<DEFAULT_PRICE_ID>",
        price_list_id: null,
        price_list_type: null,
        min_quantity: null,
        max_quantity: null,
      },

      original_price: {
        price_id: "<DEFAULT_PRICE_ID>",
        price_list_id: null,
        price_list_type: null,
        min_quantity: null,
        max_quantity: null,
      },
    }
    ```

    - Original price selection: since there are no provided rules in the context, the original price is the default price.
    - Calculated price selection: since there are no associated price lists, the calculated price is set to the original price.

    </TabsContent>
  </TabsContentWrapper>
</Tabs>

### Calculate Prices with Rules

<Tabs defaultValue="code">
  <TabsList>
    <TabsTrigger value="code">Code</TabsTrigger>
    <TabsTrigger value="result">Result</TabsTrigger>
  </TabsList>
  <TabsContentWrapper>
    <TabsContent value="code">

    ```ts
    const price = await pricingModuleService.calculatePrices(
      { id: [priceSet.id] },
      {
        context: {
          currency_code: "EUR",
          region_id: "reg_123",
          city: "krakow"
        }
      }
    )
    ```

    </TabsContent>
    <TabsContent value="result">

    The returned price is:

    ```ts
    const price = {
      id: "<PRICE_SET_ID>",
      is_calculated_price_price_list: false,
      calculated_amount: 500,

      is_original_price_price_list: false,
      original_amount: 500,

      currency_code: "EUR",

      is_calculated_price_tax_inclusive: false,
      is_original_price_tax_inclusive: false,

      calculated_price: {
        price_id: "<FOURTH_PRICE_ID>",
        price_list_id: null,
        price_list_type: null,
        min_quantity: null,
        max_quantity: null,
      },

      original_price: {
        price_id: "<FOURTH_PRICE_ID>",
        price_list_id: null,
        price_list_type: null,
        min_quantity: null,
        max_quantity: null,
      },
    }
    ```

    - Original price selection: The fourth price in the price list is selected as the best price.
    - Calculated price selection: since there are no associated price lists, the calculated price is set to the original price.

    </TabsContent>
  </TabsContentWrapper>
</Tabs>

### Price Selection with Price List

<Tabs defaultValue="code">
  <TabsList>
    <TabsTrigger value="code">Code</TabsTrigger>
    <TabsTrigger value="result">Result</TabsTrigger>
  </TabsList>
  <TabsContentWrapper>
    <TabsContent value="code">

    ```ts
    const priceList = pricingModuleService.createPriceLists([{
      title: "Summer Price List",
      description: "Price list for summer sale",
      starts_at: Date.parse("01/10/2023").toString(),
      ends_at: Date.parse("31/10/2023").toString(),
      rules: {
        region_id: ['PL']
      },
      type: "sale",
      prices: [
        {
          amount: 400,
          currency_code: "EUR",
          price_set_id: priceSet.id,
        },
        {
          amount: 450,
          currency_code: "EUR",
          price_set_id: priceSet.id,
        },
      ],
    }]);

    const price = await pricingModuleService.calculatePrices(
      { id: [priceSet.id] },
      {
        context: {
          currency_code: "EUR",
          region_id: "PL",
          city: "krakow"
        }
      }
    )
    ```

    </TabsContent>
    <TabsContent value="result">

    The returned price is:

    ```ts
    const price = {
      id: "<PRICE_SET_ID>",
      is_calculated_price_price_list: true,
      calculated_amount: 400,

      is_original_price_price_list: false,
      original_amount: 500,

      currency_code: "EUR",

      is_calculated_price_tax_inclusive: false,
      is_original_price_tax_inclusive: false,

      calculated_price: {
        price_id: "<FOURTH_PRICE_ID>",
        price_list_id: null,
        price_list_type: null,
        min_quantity: null,
        max_quantity: null,
      },

      original_price: {
        price_id: "<PL_PRICE_ID_1>",
        price_list_id: "<PRICE_LIST_ID>",
        price_list_type: "sale",
        min_quantity: null,
        max_quantity: null,
      },
    }
    ```

    - Original price selection: The fourth price in the price list is selected as the best price.
    - Calculated price selection: The first price of the price list is selected as the best price.

    </TabsContent>
  </TabsContentWrapper>
</Tabs>
