www/apps/book/app/basics/events-and-subscribers/page.mdx, before:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Events and Subscribers`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you’ll learn how to handle events with subscribers.

## What is an Event?

When an action is performed in Medusa, such as creating a product, the Medusa application emits an event. You can listen to those events and perform an asynchronous action.

---

## What is a Subscriber?

A subscriber is a function executed whenever its associated event is emitted.

The subscriber is created in a TypeScript or JavaScript file under the `src/subscribers` directory.

For example, create the file `src/subscribers/product-created.ts` with the following content:

```ts title="src/subscribers/product-created.ts"
import { type SubscriberConfig } from "@medusajs/medusa"

// subscriber function
export default async function productCreateHandler() {
  console.log("A product was created")
}

// subscriber config
export const config: SubscriberConfig = {
  event: "product.created",
}
```

A subscriber file must export:

- The subscriber function that is an asynchronous function executed whenever the associated event is triggered.
- A configuration object defining the event this subscriber is listening to.

The above subscriber listens to the `product.created` event. Whenever the event is emitted, it logs in the terminal `A product is created`.

{/* TODO add when we have the admin dashboard to use with V2 for easy testing. */}

{/* ### Test Subscriber

To test the subscriber, start the Medusa application:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run dev
```

Then, create a product using the Medusa Admin dashboard. Afterward, you’ll see the following messages logged in the terminal:

```bash
info:    Processing product.created which has 1 subscribers
A product is created
```

The first message indicates that the `product.created` event was emitted, and the second one is the message logged from the subscriber. */}

---

## When to Use Subscribers

<Note title="Use subscribers when" type="success">

- You want to perform an action everytime a specific event is emitted in the Medusa application.

</Note>

---

## Resolve Resources

The subscriber function accepts an object parameter with the property `container`. Its value is the Medusa container, and you can use it to resolve other resources, such as services.

For example:

{/* TODO change how event names are loaded */}

export const highlights = [
  ["11"],
  ["14", "resolve", "Resolve the `IProductModuleService`."],
  ["14", "ModuleRegistrationName.PRODUCT", "The resource registration name imported from `@medusajs/modules-sdk`."]
]

```ts title="src/subscribers/product-created.ts" highlights={highlights}
import {
  SubscriberArgs,
  type SubscriberConfig,
} from "@medusajs/medusa"
import { IProductModuleService } from "@medusajs/types"
import { ModuleRegistrationName } from "@medusajs/modules-sdk"

export default async function productCreateHandler({
  data,
  container,
}: SubscriberArgs<Record<string, string>>) {
  const productModuleService: IProductModuleService =
    container.resolve(ModuleRegistrationName.PRODUCT)

  const product = await productModuleService.retrieve(data.id)

  console.log(`The product ${product.title} was created`)
}

export const config: SubscriberConfig = {
  event: `product.created`,
}
```

You use the container to resolve the `IProductModuleService`, then log the title of the created product.

Commit message:

docs: updates to use DML and other changes (#7834)
- Change existing data model guides and add new ones for DML
- Change module's docs around service factory + remove guides that are now necessary
- Hide/remove all mentions of module relationships, or label them as coming soon.
- Change all data model creation snippets to use DML
- use `property` instead of `field` when referring to a data model's properties.
- Fix all snippets in commerce module guides to use new method suffix (no more main model methods)
- Rework recipes, removing/hiding a lot of sections as a lot of recipes are incomplete with the current state of DML.


### Other changes

- Highlight fixes in some guides
- Remove feature flags guide
- Fix code block styles when there are no line numbers.

### Upcoming changes in other PRs

- Re-generate commerce module references (for the updates in the method names)
- Ensure that the data model references are generated correctly for models using DML.
- (probably at a very later point) revisit recipes

www/apps/book/app/basics/events-and-subscribers/page.mdx, after:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Events and Subscribers`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you’ll learn how to handle events with subscribers.

## What is an Event?

When an action is performed in Medusa, such as creating a product, the Medusa application emits an event. You can listen to those events and perform an asynchronous action.

---

## What is a Subscriber?

A subscriber is a function executed whenever its associated event is emitted.

The subscriber is created in a TypeScript or JavaScript file under the `src/subscribers` directory.

For example, create the file `src/subscribers/product-created.ts` with the following content:

```ts title="src/subscribers/product-created.ts"
import { type SubscriberConfig } from "@medusajs/medusa"

// subscriber function
export default async function productCreateHandler() {
  console.log("A product was created")
}

// subscriber config
export const config: SubscriberConfig = {
  event: "product.created",
}
```

A subscriber file must export:

- The subscriber function that is an asynchronous function executed whenever the associated event is triggered.
- A configuration object defining the event this subscriber is listening to.

The above subscriber listens to the `product.created` event. Whenever the event is emitted, it logs in the terminal `A product is created`.

{/* TODO add when we have the admin dashboard to use with V2 for easy testing. */}

{/* ### Test Subscriber

To test the subscriber, start the Medusa application:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run dev
```

Then, create a product using the Medusa Admin dashboard. Afterward, you’ll see the following messages logged in the terminal:

```bash
info:    Processing product.created which has 1 subscribers
A product is created
```

The first message indicates that the `product.created` event was emitted, and the second one is the message logged from the subscriber. */}

---

## When to Use Subscribers

<Note title="Use subscribers when" type="success">

- You want to perform an action everytime a specific event is emitted in the Medusa application.

</Note>

---

## Resolve Resources

The subscriber function accepts an object parameter with the property `container`. Its value is the Medusa container, and you can use it to resolve other resources, such as services.

For example:

{/* TODO change how event names are loaded */}

export const highlights = [
  ["10", "container", "Recieve the Medusa Container in the object parameter."],
  ["13", "resolve", "Resolve the Product Module's main service."],
  ["13", "ModuleRegistrationName.PRODUCT", "The resource registration name imported from `@medusajs/modules-sdk`."]
]

```ts title="src/subscribers/product-created.ts" highlights={highlights}
import {
  SubscriberArgs,
  type SubscriberConfig,
} from "@medusajs/medusa"
import { IProductModuleService } from "@medusajs/types"
import { ModuleRegistrationName } from "@medusajs/modules-sdk"

export default async function productCreateHandler({
  data,
  container,
}: SubscriberArgs<Record<string, string>>) {
  const productModuleService: IProductModuleService =
    container.resolve(ModuleRegistrationName.PRODUCT)

  const product = await productModuleService.retrieve(data.id)

  console.log(`The product ${product.title} was created`)
}

export const config: SubscriberConfig = {
  event: `product.created`,
}
```

You use the container to resolve the Product Module's main service, then log the title of the created product.
