www/apps/book/app/basics/modules-and-services/page.mdx, before:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Modules and Services`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you’ll learn about modules, their main service, and how to create them.

## What is a Module?

A module is a package of reusable functionalities. It can be integrated into your Medusa application without affecting the overall system.

Use modules to customize or develop commerce and architectural features in your Medusa application.

---

## How to Create a Module

<Note title="Steps Summary">

1. Create module's main service.
2. Create module definition.
3. Add module to Medusa's configurations.

</Note>

Modules are created in a sub-directory of `src/modules`.

For example, create the directory `src/modules/hello`.

### 1. Create a Service

A module must define a service. A service is a TypeScript or JavaScript class holding methods related to a business logic or commerce functionality.

For example, create the file `src/modules/hello/service.ts` with the following content:

```ts title="src/modules/hello/service.ts"
export default class HelloModuleService {
  getMessage() {
    return "Hello, world!"
  }
}
```

### 2. Export Module Definition

A module must have an `index.ts` file in its root directory that exports its definition. The definition specifies the main service of the module.

For example, create the file `src/modules/hello.index.ts` with the following content:

```ts title="src/modules/hello.index.ts" highlights={[["4", "", "The main service of the module."]]}
import HelloModuleService from "./service"

export default {
  service: HelloModuleService,
}
```

### 3. Add Module to Configurations

The last step is to add the module in Medusa’s configurations.

In `medusa-config.js`, add the module to the `modules` object:

```js title="medusa-config.js" highlights={[["4", "helloModuleService", "The key of the main service to be registered in the Medusa container."]]}
module.exports = defineConfig({
  // ...
  modules: {
    helloModuleService: {
      resolve: "./modules/hello",
    }
  }
})
```

Its key (`helloModuleService`) is the name of the module’s main service. It will be registered in the Medusa container with that name.

Its value is an object having the `resolve` property, whose value is either a path to the directory holding the module or an `npm` package’s name.

<Note title="Tip">

When you run the `build` or `dev` command, your customizations are transpiled from the `src` directory into the `dist` directory. So, you point to the module in the `dist` directory.

</Note>

### 4. Test the Module

Since the module's main service is registered in the Medusa container, you can resolve it in other resources to use its functionalities.

One way to test the module is to create the API route `src/api/store/custom/route.ts` with the following content:

```ts title="src/api/store/custom/route.ts"
import { MedusaRequest, MedusaResponse } from "@medusajs/medusa"
import HelloService from "../../../modules/hello/service"

export async function GET(
  req: MedusaRequest,
  res: MedusaResponse
): Promise<void> {
  const helloModuleService: HelloService = req.scope.resolve(
    "helloModuleService"
  )

  res.json({
    message: helloModuleService.getMessage(),
  })
}
```

Then, start the Medusa application:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run dev
```

Finally, send a `GET` request to `/store/custom`:

```bash apiTesting testApiUrl="http://localhost:9000/store/custom" testApiMethod="GET"
curl http://locahost:9000/store/custom
```

You’ll receive the following response:

```json
{
  "message": "Hello, world!"
}
```

---

## When to Use Modules

<Note title="Use modules when" type="success">

- You're implementing a custom commerce feature. For example, you're implementing digital products.
- You want to extend data models in other commerce modules, such as adding a field or a relation to the `Product` model.
- You want to re-use your custom commerce functionalities across Medusa applications or use them in other environments, such as Edge functions and Next.js apps.

</Note>

Commit message:

docs: change module paths in resolve (#7539)
Change the path to modules in the resolve property across docs

www/apps/book/app/basics/modules-and-services/page.mdx, after:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Modules and Services`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you’ll learn about modules, their main service, and how to create them.

## What is a Module?

A module is a package of reusable functionalities. It can be integrated into your Medusa application without affecting the overall system.

Use modules to customize or develop commerce and architectural features in your Medusa application.

---

## How to Create a Module

<Note title="Steps Summary">

1. Create module's main service.
2. Create module definition.
3. Add module to Medusa's configurations.

</Note>

Modules are created in a sub-directory of `src/modules`.

For example, create the directory `src/modules/hello`.

### 1. Create a Service

A module must define a service. A service is a TypeScript or JavaScript class holding methods related to a business logic or commerce functionality.

For example, create the file `src/modules/hello/service.ts` with the following content:

```ts title="src/modules/hello/service.ts"
export default class HelloModuleService {
  getMessage() {
    return "Hello, world!"
  }
}
```

### 2. Export Module Definition

A module must have an `index.ts` file in its root directory that exports its definition. The definition specifies the main service of the module.

For example, create the file `src/modules/hello.index.ts` with the following content:

```ts title="src/modules/hello.index.ts" highlights={[["4", "", "The main service of the module."]]}
import HelloModuleService from "./service"

export default {
  service: HelloModuleService,
}
```

### 3. Add Module to Configurations

The last step is to add the module in Medusa’s configurations.

In `medusa-config.js`, add the module to the `modules` object:

```js title="medusa-config.js" highlights={[["4", "helloModuleService", "The key of the main service to be registered in the Medusa container."]]}
module.exports = defineConfig({
  // ...
  modules: {
    helloModuleService: {
      resolve: "./modules/hello",
    }
  }
})
```

Its key (`helloModuleService`) is the name of the module’s main service. It will be registered in the Medusa container with that name.

Its value is an object having the `resolve` property, whose value is either a path to module's directory (relative to `src`, so it shouldn't include `src` in the path) or an `npm` package’s name.

### 4. Test the Module

Since the module's main service is registered in the Medusa container, you can resolve it in other resources to use its functionalities.

One way to test the module is to create the API route `src/api/store/custom/route.ts` with the following content:

```ts title="src/api/store/custom/route.ts"
import { MedusaRequest, MedusaResponse } from "@medusajs/medusa"
import HelloService from "../../../modules/hello/service"

export async function GET(
  req: MedusaRequest,
  res: MedusaResponse
): Promise<void> {
  const helloModuleService: HelloService = req.scope.resolve(
    "helloModuleService"
  )

  res.json({
    message: helloModuleService.getMessage(),
  })
}
```

Then, start the Medusa application:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run dev
```

Finally, send a `GET` request to `/store/custom`:

```bash apiTesting testApiUrl="http://localhost:9000/store/custom" testApiMethod="GET"
curl http://locahost:9000/store/custom
```

You’ll receive the following response:

```json
{
  "message": "Hello, world!"
}
```

---

## When to Use Modules

<Note title="Use modules when" type="success">

- You're implementing a custom commerce feature. For example, you're implementing digital products.
- You want to extend data models in other commerce modules, such as adding a field or a relation to the `Product` model.
- You want to re-use your custom commerce functionalities across Medusa applications or use them in other environments, such as Edge functions and Next.js apps.

</Note>
