www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/promotion/concepts/page.mdx, before:

import { Table } from "docs-ui"

export const metadata = {
  title: `Promotion Concepts`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you’ll learn about the main promotion and rule concepts in the Promotion Module.

## What is a Promotion?

A promotion, represented by the [Promotion data model](/references/promotion/models/Promotion), represents a discount applied on cart items, shipping methods, or entire orders.

A promotion has two types:

- `standard`: A standard promotion with rules.
- `buyget`: “A buy X get Y” promotion with rules.

<Table>
  <Table.Header>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.HeaderCell>
      
      `standard` Promotion Examples
      
      </Table.HeaderCell>
      <Table.HeaderCell>
      
      `buyget` Promotion Examples
      
      </Table.HeaderCell>
    </Table.Row>
  </Table.Header>
  <Table.Body>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.Cell>

      A coupon code that gives customers 10% off their entire order.

      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>

      Buy two shirts and get another for free.

      </Table.Cell>
    </Table.Row>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.Cell>

      A coupon code that gives customers $15 off any shirt in their order.

      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>

      Buy two shirts and get 10% off the entire order.

      </Table.Cell>
    </Table.Row>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.Cell>

      A discount applied automatically for VIP customers that removes 10% off their shipping method’s amount.

      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>

      Spend $100 and get free shipping.

      </Table.Cell>
    </Table.Row>
  </Table.Body>
</Table>

## PromotionRule

A promotion can be restricted by a set of rules, each rule is represented by the [PromotionRule data model](/references/promotion/models/PromotionRule). For example, you can create a promotion that only customers of the `VIP` customer group can use.

![A diagram showcasing the relation between Promotion and PromotionRule](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1709833196/Medusa%20Resources/promotion-promotion-rule_msbx0w.jpg)

A `PromotionRule`'s `attribute` field indicates the field's name to which this rule is applied. For example, `customer_group_id`. Its value is stored in the `PromotionRuleValue` data model. So, a rule can have multiple values.

When testing whether a promotion can be applied to a cart, the rule's `attribute` field and its values are tested on the cart itself. For example, the cart's customer must be part of the customer group(s) indicated in the promotion rule's value.

---

## Flexible Rules

The `PromotionRule`'s `operator` field adds more flexibility to the rule’s condition rather than simple equality (`eq`).

For example, to restrict the promotion to only `VIP` and `B2B` customer groups:

- Add a `PromotionRule` with its `attribute` field set to `customer_group_id` and `operator` field to `in`.
- Add two `PromotionRuleValue` associated with the rule: one with the value `VIP` and the other `B2B`.

![A diagram showcasing the relation between PromotionRule and PromotionRuleValue when a rule has multiple values](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1709897383/Medusa%20Resources/promotion-promotion-rule-multiple_hctpmt.jpg)

In this case, a customer’s group must be in the `VIP` and `B2B` set of values to use the promotion.

Commit message:

docs: updates to use DML and other changes (#7834)
- Change existing data model guides and add new ones for DML
- Change module's docs around service factory + remove guides that are now necessary
- Hide/remove all mentions of module relationships, or label them as coming soon.
- Change all data model creation snippets to use DML
- use `property` instead of `field` when referring to a data model's properties.
- Fix all snippets in commerce module guides to use new method suffix (no more main model methods)
- Rework recipes, removing/hiding a lot of sections as a lot of recipes are incomplete with the current state of DML.


### Other changes

- Highlight fixes in some guides
- Remove feature flags guide
- Fix code block styles when there are no line numbers.

### Upcoming changes in other PRs

- Re-generate commerce module references (for the updates in the method names)
- Ensure that the data model references are generated correctly for models using DML.
- (probably at a very later point) revisit recipes

www/apps/resources/app/commerce-modules/promotion/concepts/page.mdx, after:

import { Table } from "docs-ui"

export const metadata = {
  title: `Promotion Concepts`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you’ll learn about the main promotion and rule concepts in the Promotion Module.

## What is a Promotion?

A promotion, represented by the [Promotion data model](/references/promotion/models/Promotion), represents a discount applied on cart items, shipping methods, or entire orders.

A promotion has two types:

- `standard`: A standard promotion with rules.
- `buyget`: “A buy X get Y” promotion with rules.

<Table>
  <Table.Header>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.HeaderCell>
      
      `standard` Promotion Examples
      
      </Table.HeaderCell>
      <Table.HeaderCell>
      
      `buyget` Promotion Examples
      
      </Table.HeaderCell>
    </Table.Row>
  </Table.Header>
  <Table.Body>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.Cell>

      A coupon code that gives customers 10% off their entire order.

      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>

      Buy two shirts and get another for free.

      </Table.Cell>
    </Table.Row>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.Cell>

      A coupon code that gives customers $15 off any shirt in their order.

      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>

      Buy two shirts and get 10% off the entire order.

      </Table.Cell>
    </Table.Row>
    <Table.Row>
      <Table.Cell>

      A discount applied automatically for VIP customers that removes 10% off their shipping method’s amount.

      </Table.Cell>
      <Table.Cell>

      Spend $100 and get free shipping.

      </Table.Cell>
    </Table.Row>
  </Table.Body>
</Table>

## PromotionRule

A promotion can be restricted by a set of rules, each rule is represented by the [PromotionRule data model](/references/promotion/models/PromotionRule). For example, you can create a promotion that only customers of the `VIP` customer group can use.

![A diagram showcasing the relation between Promotion and PromotionRule](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1709833196/Medusa%20Resources/promotion-promotion-rule_msbx0w.jpg)

A `PromotionRule`'s `attribute` property indicates the property's name to which this rule is applied. For example, `customer_group_id`. Its value is stored in the `PromotionRuleValue` data model. So, a rule can have multiple values.

When testing whether a promotion can be applied to a cart, the rule's `attribute` property and its values are tested on the cart itself. For example, the cart's customer must be part of the customer group(s) indicated in the promotion rule's value.

---

## Flexible Rules

The `PromotionRule`'s `operator` property adds more flexibility to the rule’s condition rather than simple equality (`eq`).

For example, to restrict the promotion to only `VIP` and `B2B` customer groups:

- Add a `PromotionRule` with its `attribute` property set to `customer_group_id` and `operator` property to `in`.
- Add two `PromotionRuleValue` associated with the rule: one with the value `VIP` and the other `B2B`.

![A diagram showcasing the relation between PromotionRule and PromotionRuleValue when a rule has multiple values](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1709897383/Medusa%20Resources/promotion-promotion-rule-multiple_hctpmt.jpg)

In this case, a customer’s group must be in the `VIP` and `B2B` set of values to use the promotion.
