---
description: "Actions Required for v.1.18"
sidebar_custom_props:
  iconName: "server-stack-solid"
---

# v1.18

Version 1.18 of Medusa ships improved [Subscriber](../../development/events/create-subscriber.md) and [Scheduled Job](../../development/scheduled-jobs/create.md) APIs, renamed feature flags, and general big fixes.

## Breaking Changes

### Changed Feature Flags

This version replaced the module-specific feature flags used in the core `@medusajs/medusa` with a feature flag that encapsulates all the work around modularizing Medusa further.

The following feature flags no longer exist:

- `isolate_product_domain` or `MEDUSA_FF_ISOLATE_PRODUCT_DOMAIN`: Previously used as the feature flag for the Product Module in the core.
- `isolate_pricing_domain` or `MEDUSA_FF_ISOLATE_PRICING_DOMAIN`: Previously used as the feature flag for the Pricing Module in the core.

These feature flags are replaced by the `medusa_v2` feature flag name, or the `MEDUSA_FF_MEDUSA_V2` environment variable. All modularization work moving forward will be guarded by this feature flag.

### Subscribing Notification Providers

In previous versions, Notification Provider Services subscribed to events in a Subscriber. Following the improvement in the Subscriber API, you have to use a Loader to subscribe Notification Providers to events as explained [here](../../references/notification/classes/notification.AbstractNotificationService.mdx#subscribe-with-loaders).

---

## How to Update

Run the following command in your project:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @medusajs/medusa@1.18
```

To avoid unexpected issues with dependencies, it's also recommended to update all other Medusa plugins or packages you have installed.

---

## Actions Required

### Run Migrations

After updating your Medusa server and before running it, run the following command to run the latest migrations:

```bash
npx medusa migrations run
```
