www/apps/book/app/advanced-development/workflows/compensation-function/page.mdx, before:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Compensation Function`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you'll learn how to add a compensation function to a step.

## Compensation Function

Errors can occur in a workflow. To avoid data inconsistency, define a function to run when an error occurs in a step. This function is called the compensation function.

For example:

```ts title="src/workflows/hello-world.ts" highlights={[["16"], ["17"], ["18"]]} collapsibleLines="1-6" expandButtonLabel="Show Imports"
// other imports...
import { 
  createStep,
  StepResponse,
} from "@medusajs/workflows-sdk"

const step1 = createStep(
  "step-1",
  async () => {
    const message = `Hello from step one!`

    console.log(message)

    return new StepResponse(message)
  },
  async () => {
    console.log("Oops! Rolling back my changes...")
  }
)
```

Each step can have a compensation function. The compensation function only runs if an error occurs throughout the Workflow. It’s useful to undo or roll back actions you’ve performed in a step.

### Test Compensation Function

1. Add another step that throws an error:

```ts title="src/workflows/hello-world.ts"
// ...
const step2 = createStep(
  "step-2",
  async () => {
    throw new Error("Throwing an error...")
  }
)
```

2. Use the steps in a workflow. For example:

```ts title="src/workflows/hello-world.ts" collapsibleLines="1-7" expandButtonLabel="Show Imports"
import {
  // other imports...
  createWorkflow,
} from "@medusajs/workflows-sdk"

// ...

type WorkflowOutput = {
  message: string
}

const myWorkflow = createWorkflow<
  {},
  WorkflowOutput
>("hello-world", function (input) {
  const str1 = step1()
  step2()

  return {
    message: str1,
  }
})

export default myWorkflow
```

3. Execute the workflow from a resource, such as an API route:

```ts title="src/api/store/workflow/route.ts" collapsibleLines="1-6" expandButtonLabel="Show Imports"
import type {
  MedusaRequest,
  MedusaResponse,
} from "@medusajs/medusa"
import myWorkflow from "../../../workflows/hello-world"

export async function GET(
  req: MedusaRequest,
  res: MedusaResponse
) {
  const { result } = await myWorkflow(req.scope)
    .run()

  res.send(result)
}
```

4. Run the Medusa application:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run dev
```

5. Send a `GET` request to `/store/workflow`:

```bash apiTesting testApiMethod="GET" testApiUrl="http://localhost:9000/store/workflows"
curl http://localhost:9000/store/workflow
```

In the console, you'll see:

- `Hello from step one!` logged in the terminal, indicating that the first step ran successfully.
- `Oops! Rolling back my changes...` logged in the terminal, indicating that the second step failed and the compensation function of the first step ran consequently.

Commit message:

docs: general fixes and improvements (#7918)
* docs improvements and changes

* updated module definition

* modules + dml changes

* fix build

* fix vale error

* fix lint errors

* fixes to stripe docs

* fix condition

* fix condition

* fix module defintion

* fix checkout

* disable UI action

* change oas preview action

* flatten provider module options

* fix lint errors

* add module link docs

* pr comments fixes

* fix vale error

* change node engine version

* links -> linkable

* add note about database name

* small fixes

* link fixes

* fix response code in api reference

* added migrations step

www/apps/book/app/advanced-development/workflows/compensation-function/page.mdx, after:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Compensation Function`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you'll learn how to add a compensation function to a step.

## Compensation Function

To avoid data inconsistency when an error is thrown in a workflow, define a function (called a compensation function) and pass it as a second parameter to the `createStep` function.

For example:

```ts title="src/workflows/hello-world.ts" highlights={[["16"], ["17"], ["18"]]} collapsibleLines="1-6" expandButtonLabel="Show Imports"
// other imports...
import { 
  createStep,
  StepResponse,
} from "@medusajs/workflows-sdk"

const step1 = createStep(
  "step-1",
  async () => {
    const message = `Hello from step one!`

    console.log(message)

    return new StepResponse(message)
  },
  async () => {
    console.log("Oops! Rolling back my changes...")
  }
)
```

Each step can have a compensation function. The compensation function only runs if an error occurs throughout the workflow. It’s useful to undo or roll back actions you’ve performed in a step.

---

## Test the Compensation Function

1. Add another step that throws an error:

```ts title="src/workflows/hello-world.ts"
// ...
const step2 = createStep(
  "step-2",
  async () => {
    throw new Error("Throwing an error...")
  }
)
```

2. Use the steps in a workflow. For example:

```ts title="src/workflows/hello-world.ts" collapsibleLines="1-7" expandButtonLabel="Show Imports"
import {
  // other imports...
  createWorkflow,
} from "@medusajs/workflows-sdk"

// ...

type WorkflowOutput = {
  message: string
}

const myWorkflow = createWorkflow<
  {},
  WorkflowOutput
>("hello-world", function (input) {
  const str1 = step1()
  step2()

  return {
    message: str1,
  }
})

export default myWorkflow
```

3. Execute the workflow from a resource, such as an API route:

```ts title="src/api/store/workflow/route.ts" collapsibleLines="1-6" expandButtonLabel="Show Imports"
import type {
  MedusaRequest,
  MedusaResponse,
} from "@medusajs/medusa"
import myWorkflow from "../../../workflows/hello-world"

export async function GET(
  req: MedusaRequest,
  res: MedusaResponse
) {
  const { result } = await myWorkflow(req.scope)
    .run()

  res.send(result)
}
```

4. Run the Medusa application:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run dev
```

5. Send a `GET` request to `/store/workflow`:

```bash apiTesting testApiMethod="GET" testApiUrl="http://localhost:9000/store/workflow"
curl http://localhost:9000/store/workflow
```

In the console, you'll see:

- `Hello from step one!` logged in the terminal, indicating that the first step ran successfully.
- `Oops! Rolling back my changes...` logged in the terminal, indicating that the second step failed and the compensation function of the first step ran consequently.
