www/apps/book/app/basics/workflows/page.mdx, before:

import { CodeTabs, CodeTab } from "docs-ui"

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Workflows`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you’ll learn about workflows and how to define and execute them.

## What is a Workflow?

A workflow is a series of queries and actions that complete a task.

You construct a workflow similar to how you create a JavaScript function, but unlike regular functions, a workflow creates an internal representation of your steps. This makes it possible to keep track of your Workflow’s progress, automatically retry failing steps, and roll back steps.

---

## How to Create and Execute a Workflow

### 1. Create the Steps

A workflow is made of a series of steps. A step is created using the `createStep` utility function imported from `@medusajs/workflows-sdk`.

Create the file `src/workflows/hello-world.ts` with the following content:

```ts title="src/workflows/hello-world.ts"
import { 
  createStep,
  StepResponse,
} from "@medusajs/workflows-sdk"

const step1 = createStep("step-1", async () => {
  return new StepResponse(`Hello from step one!`)
})
```

This creates one step that returns a hello message.

Steps can accepts input parameters. For example:

```ts title="src/workflows/hello-world.ts"
type WorkflowInput = {
  name: string
}

const step2 = createStep(
  "step-2",
  async ({ name }: WorkflowInput) => {
    return new StepResponse(`Hello ${name} from step two!`)
  }
)
```

### 2. Create a Workflow

Next, create the workflow using the `createWorkflow` function:

```ts title="src/workflows/hello-world.ts"
import {
  // other imports...
  createWorkflow,
} from "@medusajs/workflows-sdk"

// ...

type WorkflowOutput = {
  message: string
}

const myWorkflow = createWorkflow<
  WorkflowInput,
  WorkflowOutput
>("hello-world", function (input) {
  const str1 = step1()
  // to pass input
  const str2 = step2(input)

  return {
    message: str1,
  }
})

export default myWorkflow

```

This creates a `hello-world` workflow. When you create a workflow, it’s constructed but not executed yet.

### 3. Execute the Workflow

You can execute a workflow from different resources within Medusa.

- Use API routes to execute the workflow in response to an API request or a webhook.
- Use subscribers to execute a workflow when an event is triggered.
- Use scheduled jobs to execute a workflow on a regular schedule.

To execute the workflow, invoke it passing the Medusa container as a parameter. Then, use its `run` method:

<CodeTabs group="resource-types">
  <CodeTab label="API Route" value="api-route">
    
    ```ts title="src/api/store/workflow/route.ts" highlights={[["11"], ["12"], ["13"], ["14"], ["15"], ["16"]]}
    import type {
      MedusaRequest,
      MedusaResponse,
    } from "@medusajs/medusa"
    import myWorkflow from "../../../workflows/hello-world"

    export async function GET(
      req: MedusaRequest,
      res: MedusaResponse
    ) {
      const { result } = await myWorkflow(req.scope)
        .run({
          input: {
            name: req.query.name as string,
          },
        })

      res.send(result)
    }
    ```

  </CodeTab>
  <CodeTab label="Subscriber" value="subscriber">
    
    ```ts title="src/subscribers/customer-created.ts" highlights={[["13"], ["14"], ["15"], ["16"], ["17"], ["18"]]}
    import {
      type SubscriberConfig,
      type SubscriberArgs,
      CustomerService,
      Customer,
    } from "@medusajs/medusa"
    import myWorkflow from "../workflows/hello-world"

    export default async function handleCustomerCreate({
      data,
      container,
    }: SubscriberArgs<Customer>) {
      const { result } = await myWorkflow(container)
        .run({
          input: {
            name: data.first_name,
          },
        })

      console.log(result)
    }

    export const config: SubscriberConfig = {
      event: CustomerService.Events.CREATED,
    }
    ```

  </CodeTab>
  <CodeTab label="Scheduled Job" value="scheduled-job">
    
    ```ts title="src/jobs/message-daily.ts" highlights={[["10"], ["11"], ["12"], ["13"], ["14"], ["15"]]}
    import {
      type ScheduledJobConfig,
      type ScheduledJobArgs,
    } from "@medusajs/medusa"
    import myWorkflow from "../workflows/hello-world"

    export default async function handler({
      container,
    }: ScheduledJobArgs) {
      const { result } = await myWorkflow(container)
        .run({
          input: {
            name: "John",
          },
        })

      console.log(result.message)
    }

    export const config: ScheduledJobConfig = {
      name: "run-once-a-day",
      schedule: `0 0 * * *`,
    }
    ```

  </CodeTab>
</CodeTabs>

### 4. Test Workflow

To test out your workflow, start your Medusa application:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run dev
```

Then, send a `GET` request to `/store/workflow`:

```bash apiTesting testApiMethod="GET" testApiUrl="http://localhost:9000/store/workflow"
curl http://localhost:9000/store/workflow
```

You’ll receive the following response:

```json
{
  "message": "Hello from step one!"
}
```

---

## When to Use Workflows

<Note title="Use workflows when" type="success">

- You're defining a flow with interactions across multiple systems and services.
- You're defining flows to be used across different resources. For example, if you want to invoke the flow manually through an API Router, but also want to automate its running through a scheduled job.
- You want to define how the series of actions are rolled-back when an error occurs.

</Note>

---

## Resolve Resources

Each step in the workflow receives as a second parameter a `context` object. The object holds a `container` property which is the Medusa container. Use it to resolve other resources, such as services, of your Medusa application.

For example:

export const highlights = [
  ["14", "resolve", "Resolve the `IProductModuleService`."],
  ["14", "ModuleRegistrationName.PRODUCT", "The resource registration name imported from `@medusajs/modules-sdk`."]
]

```ts title="src/workflows/product-count.ts" highlights={highlights}
import {
  createStep,
  StepResponse,
  createWorkflow,
} from "@medusajs/workflows-sdk"
import { IProductModuleService } from "@medusajs/types"
import { ModuleRegistrationName } from "@medusajs/modules-sdk"

type WorkflowOutput = {
  count: number
}

const step1 = createStep("step-1", async (_, context) => {
  const productModuleService: IProductModuleService =
    context.container.resolve(ModuleRegistrationName.PRODUCT)
  return new StepResponse(
    (await productModuleService.listAndCount())[1]
  )
})

const myWorkflow = createWorkflow<unknown, WorkflowOutput>(
  "product-count",
  function () {
    const count = step1()

    return {
      count,
    }
  }
)

export default myWorkflow
```

Commit message:

docs: updates to use DML and other changes (#7834)
- Change existing data model guides and add new ones for DML
- Change module's docs around service factory + remove guides that are now necessary
- Hide/remove all mentions of module relationships, or label them as coming soon.
- Change all data model creation snippets to use DML
- use `property` instead of `field` when referring to a data model's properties.
- Fix all snippets in commerce module guides to use new method suffix (no more main model methods)
- Rework recipes, removing/hiding a lot of sections as a lot of recipes are incomplete with the current state of DML.


### Other changes

- Highlight fixes in some guides
- Remove feature flags guide
- Fix code block styles when there are no line numbers.

### Upcoming changes in other PRs

- Re-generate commerce module references (for the updates in the method names)
- Ensure that the data model references are generated correctly for models using DML.
- (probably at a very later point) revisit recipes

www/apps/book/app/basics/workflows/page.mdx, after:

import { CodeTabs, CodeTab } from "docs-ui"

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Workflows`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you’ll learn about workflows and how to define and execute them.

## What is a Workflow?

A workflow is a series of queries and actions that complete a task.

You construct a workflow similar to how you create a JavaScript function, but unlike regular functions, a workflow creates an internal representation of your steps. This makes it possible to keep track of your Workflow’s progress, automatically retry failing steps, and roll back steps.

---

## How to Create and Execute a Workflow

### 1. Create the Steps

A workflow is made of a series of steps. A step is created using the `createStep` utility function imported from `@medusajs/workflows-sdk`.

Create the file `src/workflows/hello-world.ts` with the following content:

```ts title="src/workflows/hello-world.ts"
import { 
  createStep,
  StepResponse,
} from "@medusajs/workflows-sdk"

const step1 = createStep("step-1", async () => {
  return new StepResponse(`Hello from step one!`)
})
```

This creates one step that returns a hello message.

Steps can accepts input parameters. For example:

```ts title="src/workflows/hello-world.ts"
type WorkflowInput = {
  name: string
}

const step2 = createStep(
  "step-2",
  async ({ name }: WorkflowInput) => {
    return new StepResponse(`Hello ${name} from step two!`)
  }
)
```

### 2. Create a Workflow

Next, create the workflow using the `createWorkflow` function:

```ts title="src/workflows/hello-world.ts"
import {
  // other imports...
  createWorkflow,
} from "@medusajs/workflows-sdk"

// ...

type WorkflowOutput = {
  message: string
}

const myWorkflow = createWorkflow<
  WorkflowInput,
  WorkflowOutput
>("hello-world", function (input) {
  const str1 = step1()
  // to pass input
  const str2 = step2(input)

  return {
    message: str1,
  }
})

export default myWorkflow

```

This creates a `hello-world` workflow. When you create a workflow, it’s constructed but not executed yet.

### 3. Execute the Workflow

You can execute a workflow from different resources within Medusa.

- Use API routes to execute the workflow in response to an API request or a webhook.
- Use subscribers to execute a workflow when an event is triggered.
- Use scheduled jobs to execute a workflow on a regular schedule.

To execute the workflow, invoke it passing the Medusa container as a parameter. Then, use its `run` method:

<CodeTabs group="resource-types">
  <CodeTab label="API Route" value="api-route">
    
    ```ts title="src/api/store/workflow/route.ts" highlights={[["11"], ["12"], ["13"], ["14"], ["15"], ["16"]]}
    import type {
      MedusaRequest,
      MedusaResponse,
    } from "@medusajs/medusa"
    import myWorkflow from "../../../workflows/hello-world"

    export async function GET(
      req: MedusaRequest,
      res: MedusaResponse
    ) {
      const { result } = await myWorkflow(req.scope)
        .run({
          input: {
            name: req.query.name as string,
          },
        })

      res.send(result)
    }
    ```

  </CodeTab>
  <CodeTab label="Subscriber" value="subscriber">
    
    ```ts title="src/subscribers/customer-created.ts" highlights={[["13"], ["14"], ["15"], ["16"], ["17"], ["18"]]}
    import {
      type SubscriberConfig,
      type SubscriberArgs,
      CustomerService,
      Customer,
    } from "@medusajs/medusa"
    import myWorkflow from "../workflows/hello-world"

    export default async function handleCustomerCreate({
      data,
      container,
    }: SubscriberArgs<Customer>) {
      const { result } = await myWorkflow(container)
        .run({
          input: {
            name: data.first_name,
          },
        })

      console.log(result)
    }

    export const config: SubscriberConfig = {
      event: CustomerService.Events.CREATED,
    }
    ```

  </CodeTab>
  <CodeTab label="Scheduled Job" value="scheduled-job">
    
    ```ts title="src/jobs/message-daily.ts" highlights={[["10"], ["11"], ["12"], ["13"], ["14"], ["15"]]}
    import {
      type ScheduledJobConfig,
      type ScheduledJobArgs,
    } from "@medusajs/medusa"
    import myWorkflow from "../workflows/hello-world"

    export default async function handler({
      container,
    }: ScheduledJobArgs) {
      const { result } = await myWorkflow(container)
        .run({
          input: {
            name: "John",
          },
        })

      console.log(result.message)
    }

    export const config: ScheduledJobConfig = {
      name: "run-once-a-day",
      schedule: `0 0 * * *`,
    }
    ```

  </CodeTab>
</CodeTabs>

### 4. Test Workflow

To test out your workflow, start your Medusa application:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run dev
```

Then, send a `GET` request to `/store/workflow`:

```bash apiTesting testApiMethod="GET" testApiUrl="http://localhost:9000/store/workflow"
curl http://localhost:9000/store/workflow
```

You’ll receive the following response:

```json
{
  "message": "Hello from step one!"
}
```

---

## When to Use Workflows

<Note title="Use workflows when" type="success">

- You're defining a flow with interactions across multiple systems and services.
- You're defining flows to be used across different resources. For example, if you want to invoke the flow manually through an API Router, but also want to automate its running through a scheduled job.
- You want to define how the series of actions are rolled-back when an error occurs.

</Note>

---

## Resolve Resources

Each step in the workflow receives as a second parameter a `context` object. The object holds a `container` property which is the Medusa container. Use it to resolve other resources, such as services, of your Medusa application.

For example:

export const highlights = [
  ["15", "resolve", "Resolve the Product Module's main service."],
  ["15", "ModuleRegistrationName.PRODUCT", "The resource registration name imported from `@medusajs/modules-sdk`."]
]

```ts title="src/workflows/product-count.ts" highlights={highlights} collapsibleLines="1-12" expandButtonLabel="Show Imports"
import {
  createStep,
  StepResponse,
  createWorkflow,
} from "@medusajs/workflows-sdk"
import { IProductModuleService } from "@medusajs/types"
import { ModuleRegistrationName } from "@medusajs/modules-sdk"

type WorkflowOutput = {
  count: number
}

const step1 = createStep("step-1", async (_, context) => {
  const productModuleService: IProductModuleService =
    context.container.resolve(ModuleRegistrationName.PRODUCT)
  return new StepResponse(
    (await productModuleService.listAndCount())[1]
  )
})

const myWorkflow = createWorkflow<unknown, WorkflowOutput>(
  "product-count",
  function () {
    const count = step1()

    return {
      count,
    }
  }
)

export default myWorkflow
```

In the step, you resolve the Product Module's main service and use it to retrieve the product count.
