www/apps/book/app/advanced-development/modules/database-operations-in-services/page.mdx, before:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Database Operations in Service Methods`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you’ll learn how to implement database operations, such as creating a record, in the main service.

## Use Data Model Services

The module container has a generated service registered for each data model. You can resolve that service and use it to perform database operations on the data model.

For example:

export const highlights = [
  ["13", "", "Inject myCustomService, which is the service generated by the container loader for the MyCustom data model."],
  ["22", "", "Add a new field for the generated service of the MyCustom data model."],
  ["29", "", "Set the class field to the injected dependency."],
  ["35", "create", "Use the `create` method of the generated service."]
]

```ts title="src/modules/hello/service.ts" highlights={highlights}
// other imports...
import { ModulesSdkTypes } from "@medusajs/types"
import { MyCustom } from "./models/my-custom"

// ...

// recommended to define type in another file
type CreateMyCustomDTO = {
  name: string
}

type InjectedDependencies = {
  myCustomService: ModulesSdkTypes.InternalModuleService<any>
}

class HelloModuleService extends ModulesSdkUtils
  .abstractModuleServiceFactory<
    // ...
  >(
    // ...
  ) {
    protected myCustomService_: ModulesSdkTypes.InternalModuleService<MyCustom>

    constructor(
      { myCustomService }: InjectedDependencies
    ) {
      // @ts-ignore
      super(...arguments)
      this.myCustomService_ = myCustomService
    }

    async create(
      data: CreateMyCustomDTO
    ): Promise<MyCustomDTO> {
      const myCustom = await this.myCustomService_.create(
        data, 
        context
      )

      return myCustom
    }
}
```

In the above example, you resolve `myCustomService` in the main service's constructor. The `myCustomService` is the generated service for the `myCustom` data model.

Then, in the `create` method of the main service, you use `myCustomService`'s `create` method to create the record.

Commit message:

docs: fixes and changes based on latest updates (#7322)
* docs: changes based on DX changes

* remove fields no longer needed

* remove unnecessary parameters

* fixes to authenticate middleware usage

* add highlight to migrations config

* change configuration to http

* added missing remote link docs

* fix name in sidebar

* added notification module docs + updated file module docs

* add vale exceptions

* fix vale errors

* added docs on custom cli scripts

www/apps/book/app/advanced-development/modules/database-operations-in-services/page.mdx, after:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Database Operations in Service Methods`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this document, you’ll learn how to implement database operations, such as creating a record, in the main service.

## Use the Data Model's Generated Service

To perform database operations on a data model, use the model's generated service in the module's container.

For example:

export const highlights = [
  ["13", "", "Inject myCustomService, which is the generated service of the `MyCustom` data model."],
  ["22", "", "Add a new field for the generated service of the MyCustom data model."],
  ["29", "", "Set the class field to the injected dependency."],
  ["35", "create", "Use the `create` method of the generated service."]
]

```ts title="src/modules/hello/service.ts" highlights={highlights}
// other imports...
import { ModulesSdkTypes } from "@medusajs/types"
import { MyCustom } from "./models/my-custom"

// ...

// recommended to define type in another file
type CreateMyCustomDTO = {
  name: string
}

type InjectedDependencies = {
  myCustomService: ModulesSdkTypes.InternalModuleService<any>
}

class HelloModuleService extends ModulesSdkUtils
  .abstractModuleServiceFactory<
    // ...
  >(
    // ...
  ) {
    protected myCustomService_: ModulesSdkTypes.InternalModuleService<MyCustom>

    constructor(
      { myCustomService }: InjectedDependencies
    ) {
      // @ts-ignore
      super(...arguments)
      this.myCustomService_ = myCustomService
    }

    async create(
      data: CreateMyCustomDTO
    ): Promise<MyCustomDTO> {
      const myCustom = await this.myCustomService_.create(
        data
      )

      return myCustom
    }
}
```

In the above example, you resolve `myCustomService` in the main service's constructor. The `myCustomService` is the generated service for the `myCustom` data model.

Then, in the `create` method of the main service, you use `myCustomService`'s `create` method to create the record.
