www/apps/book/app/advanced-development/events-and-subscribers/data-payload/page.mdx, before:

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Event Data Payload`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you'll learn how subscribers receive an event's data payload.

## Access Event's Data Payload

When events are emitted, they’re emitted with a data payload. 

The object that the subscriber function receives as a parameter has a `data` property, which is the event's data payload.

For example:

export const highlights = [
  ["7", "", "The event's data payload."],
  ["8", "{ id: string }", "The type of expected data payloads."],
  ["9", '"data" in data ? data.data.id : data.id', "The payload data is either in `data.data` or directly in `data`."]
]

```ts title="src/subscribers/product-created.ts" highlights={highlights} collapsibleLines="1-5" expandButtonLabel="Show Imports"
import type {
  SubscriberArgs,
  SubscriberConfig,
} from "@medusajs/medusa"

export default async function productCreateHandler({
  data,
}: SubscriberArgs<{ id: string }>) {
  const productId = "data" in data ? data.data.id : data.id
  console.log(`The product ${productId} was created`)
}

export const config: SubscriberConfig = {
  event: "product.created",
}
```

This logs the product ID received in the `product.created` event’s data payload to the console.

---

## List of Events with Data Payload

Refer to [this reference](!resources!/events-reference) for a full list of events emitted by Medusa and their data payloads.

Commit message:

docs: change event payload handling in subscribers

www/apps/book/app/advanced-development/events-and-subscribers/data-payload/page.mdx, after:

import { TypeList } from "docs-ui"

export const metadata = {
  title: `${pageNumber} Event Data Payload`,
}

# {metadata.title}

In this chapter, you'll learn how subscribers receive an event's data payload.

## Access Event's Data Payload

When events are emitted, they’re emitted with a data payload. 

The object that the subscriber function receives as a parameter has a `data` property, which is an object holding the event payload with additional context.

For example:

export const highlights = [
  ["7", "", "The event's data payload."],
  ["8", "{ id: string }", "The type of expected data payloads."],
]

```ts title="src/subscribers/product-created.ts" highlights={highlights} collapsibleLines="1-5" expandButtonLabel="Show Imports"
import type {
  SubscriberArgs,
  SubscriberConfig,
} from "@medusajs/medusa"

export default async function productCreateHandler({
  data,
}: SubscriberArgs<{ id: string }>) {
  const productId = data.data.id
  console.log(`The product ${productId} was created`)
}

export const config: SubscriberConfig = {
  event: "product.created",
}
```

The `data` object has the following properties:

<TypeList types={[
  {
    name: "data",
    type: "`object`",
    description: "The data payload of the event. Its properties depend on the event."
  },
  {
    name: "eventName",
    type: "string",
    description: "The name of the triggered event."
  },
  {
    name: "metadata",
    type: "`object`",
    description: "Additional data and context of the emitted event.",
    optional: true
  },
]} sectionTitle="Access Event's Data Payload" />

This logs the product ID received in the `product.created` event’s data payload to the console.

---

## List of Events with Data Payload

Refer to [this reference](!resources!/events-reference) for a full list of events emitted by Medusa and their data payloads.
